---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Brooklyn NineNine"
date:   2020-07-26 10:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*This room is aimed for beginner level hackers but anyone can try to hack this box. There are two main intended ways to root the box.*  

Per the description, this is a beginner box. Sometimes I battle for hours on these easy rated boxes overlooking something simple or hunting for some particular hidden directory. In this case, I got both flags within 10 minutes of deploying the box. Here's how.

## nmap
As I'm writing this I've already gotten both flags and my nmap scan is about 50% completed :/ 

This one has *at least* FTP, SSH and HTTP on port 80 and that's probably all. I cancelled the scan before it finished. 

## FTP 
We have anonymous login, and get one file called **note_to_jake.txt**. The content is:

*From Amy,  
Jake please change your password. It is too weak and holt will be mad if someone hacks into the nine nine*

So maybe there's a vector there, but in the end we didn't use it.

## Webserver
On the website is a picture from the TV show and the page source literally says: **Have you ever heard of steganography?**. Well yes, yes I have.

## Stego, again.
We can download the image from the root of the webserver and try to extract the hidden data. Running **steghide** with no password, i.e. 

``
root@kali:steghide extract -sf brooklyn99.jpg
``

produced an error about the contained data being corrupted. That didn't sound right, so 

``
root@kali:stegcracker brooklyn99.jpg /usr/share/seclists/Passwords/xato-net-10-million-passwords-100000.txt
``

quickly found the password, which was **admin**.

The hidden content was:
>Holts Password:  
fluffydog12@ninenine  
Enjoy!!

## On the box
Using this password we can ssh in as 'holt', and grab the user flag. Next:

{% highlight shell %}
holt@brookly_nine_nine:~$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for holt on brookly_nine_nine:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User holt may run the following commands on brookly_nine_nine:
    (ALL) NOPASSWD: /bin/nano
{% endhighlight %}

Since we can run nano as root, we can read root flag immediately using ^R in nano, or [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/nano/) shows us how to use this privilege to get a root shell, if we're not happy with just reading the flag.

{% highlight shell %}
nano
^R^X
reset; sh 1>&0 2>&0
{% endhighlight %}

And that's all she wrote!
