---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Gotta Catch 'em All"
date:   2020-08-11 20:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*This room is based on the original Pokemon series. Can you obtain all the Pokemon in this room?*  

Sure, why not. It's easy rated. Let's begin.

## Ports
nmap says we've got two ports only: 22 (SSH) and 80 (HTTP). 

## Webserver
The front page is basically just the default Apache page, with a few little additions. Running a gobuster doesn't turn anything up, so let's look closely:

{% highlight html %}
<pokemon>:<hack_the_pokemon>
<!--(Check console for extra surprise!)-->
{% endhighlight %}

Does that look like maybe SSH credentials? Yes, it does. 

## On the box
There are 3 flags we can get as user Pokemon, and one we need to get as user Ash. The three flags are encoded differently - one as hex, one as base64 and one as Rot14. Nothing too complex. Finding them is slightly trickier, but is somewhat simplified by the fact that **.bash_history** is readable, and points the way. This also shows us where to find the password for Ash, and then we just **su**. So not too much challenge once you're on.

{% highlight shell %}
pokemon@root:~/Videos/Gotta/Catch/Them/ALL!$ cat Could_this_be_what_Im_looking_for\?.cplusplus 
# include <iostream>

int main() {
	std::cout << "ash : pikapika"
	return 0;
}pokemon@root:~/Videos/Gotta/Catch/Them/ALL!$ su ash
Password: 
To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ash@root:/home$ ls -lash
total 20K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  4 root    root    4.0K Jun 22 23:21 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 24 root    root    4.0K Jun 24 13:48 ..
4.0K drwx------  6 root    root    4.0K Jun 24 14:14 ash
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 18 pokemon pokemon 4.0K Aug 11 05:21 pokemon
4.0K -rwx------  1 ash     root       8 Jun 22 23:21 roots-pokemon.txt
ash@root:/home$ cat roots-pokemon.txt 
{% endhighlight %}
