---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Chill Hack"
date:   2020-11-27 20:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Chill the Hack out of the Machine.  
Intermediate level CTF.  Capture the flags and have fun!*

This is [Chill Hack](https://tryhackme.com/room/chillhack) from TryHackMe. It's medium rated.

## Ports
We've got FTP, SSH and HTTP on port 80.

## FTP
Anonymous login is permitted, and there is a *note.txt* that gives some message about filtering or something; not very interesting. It's relevant to the next bit but adds nothing important.

## HTTP
On the website there is a directory called */secret* which you could easily find with gobuster or whatever; I actually just guessed that it existed. It has a box in which commands can be entered and these are executed by the server, but most of the common linux commands are disallowed; eg *ls*, *cat* etc.

When I completed this box there were no writeups, but after some were released I went and looked at them and found a fascinating array of ways in which people got around this. Basically the underlying filter was a string comparison of the entered text with a set of disallowed commands.

So people defeated this is a range of ways including:
1. *bash* is not the same as */bin/bash* from a string comparison perspective, so a fully quoted binary path defeats the filter
2. *b\ash* is not the same as *bash* even though the escape character is ignored, because the string comparison happens first
3. find is allowed, and can be used to execute other commands with the *-exec* switch

Anyway I found that all very interesting. What I did was different. There are a variety of shells available on a typical linux box which may include *sh*, *bash*, *zsh*, *dash* and potentially others. We had no sh, bash or zsh but we did have *dash*. How could we use this? What I found was this pattern:

{% highlight shell %}
echo d2hpY2ggcHl0aG9uMw==  | base64 -d | dash
{% endhighlight %}

So we will *echo* a base64 encoded command (cat /etc/passwd, a reverse shell or whatever), pipe it to *base64* to decode, and then pipe it to *dash*. This was how I got a shell as www-data.

## On the box
In */var/www* there are two subdirectories - *files* and *html*. This will be relevant. But first we run *sudo -l*

{% highlight shell %}
Matching Defaults entries for www-data on ubuntu:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User www-data may run the following commands on ubuntu:
    (apaar : ALL) NOPASSWD: /home/apaar/.helpline.sh
{% endhighlight %}

This shell script (which I failed to make a copy of) allowed you to run commands, even though it wasn't particularly obvious that was what was happening. You responded to a prompt twice - what you entered an the second prompt was a command or would be run as one. I just used this to launch *bash* as *apaar*.

## apaar
Apaar has an *authorized_keys* file, so we can add our SSH public key and then SSH in as apaar:

{% highlight shell %}
apaar@ubuntu:~/.ssh$ printf 'ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABgQC  AND THE REST OF MY PUBLIC KEY mPg33/0opPfH/J/n9P7Wr6pOF6rz8cPZEiQKSgCTe8/jq4xft4aQKEKx8NlGkYjlKaxnz2kaLxuJmw+gGkaUOm/orR1AjlnSE= root@kali' >> authorized_keys
{% endhighlight %}

We can see something is running on port 9001 (thanks linpeas), so we'll set up an SSH port forward:

``
root@kali:~# ssh -L 9999:127.0.0.1:9001 apaar@10.10.14.113
``

And visit localhost:9999 in the browser. We get the website from the */var/www/files* directory I mentioned earlier, which has a login page. We can send that to *sqlmap* and extract two easily cracked hashes:

>7e53614ced3640d5de23f111806cc4fd:masterpassword  
686216240e5af30df0501e53c789a649:dontaskdonttell

Which ultimately turn out to be useless. If we log in with one of these and the username *aurick* (I think it was, I'm going from memory because I didn't write this down), we get served a different page with a picture of a spooky hacker and a message about searching in the dark or something. We already had access to this stuff earlier, so ... yeah. Didn't really gain anything from that.

## In the dark
Up until this point I'd been enjoying this box. Now comes the stego - arrrragh.

Download the hacker picture thing, run steghide (no password), get password protected zip file, crack that with john, read base64 encoded creds. Here's what my bash history looked like:

>191  steghide extract -sf hacker-with-laptop_23-2147985341.jpg   
192  file backup.zip   
193  ls  
194  unzip backup.zip   
195  locate zip2john  
196  zip2john backup.zip > backup.john  
197  john backup.john -w=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt   
198  unzip backup.zip   
199  cat source_code.php   

I'm skipping over this a bit because it gave me the shits. I hate stego.

## Privesc
Anyway our new user is in the [docker](https://medium.com/@Affix/privilege-escallation-with-docker-56dc682a6e17) group:

{% highlight shell %}
anurodh@ubuntu:/dev/shm$ docker run -it -v /:/mnt alpine chroot /mnt
groups: cannot find name for group ID 11
To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

root@c98abe29c255:/# ls
bin   cdrom  etc   initrd.img      lib    lost+found  mnt  proc  run   snap  swap.img  tmp  var      vmlinuz.old
boot  dev    home  initrd.img.old  lib64  media       opt  root  sbin  srv   sys       usr  vmlinuz
root@c98abe29c255:/# cd /root
root@c98abe29c255:~# ls
proof.txt
root@c98abe29c255:~# cat proof.txt
{ROOT-FLAG: w18gfpn9xehsgd3tovhk0hby4gdp89bg}
Congratulations! You have successfully completed the challenge.
{% endhighlight %}

Yay I guess. This could have been a good challenge but ultimately it fell a bit short for mine. The SSH port forward was a nice touch but ultimately it was unnecessary. The box was supposed to be 'real life' like but then - surprise! - stego. I think I'm going to make my own box soon, I have some ideas.
