---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - KB-VULN:2 and EasyEnum"
date:   2020-09-26 19:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
Two easy boxes rooted; let's go.  
[KB-VULN: 2](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/kb-vuln-2,562/)  
[Funbox: EasyEnum](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/funbox-easyenum,565/)

## KB-VULN2 ports
We've got a few: FTP, SSH on 22, HTTP on 80 and SMB.

We've got no anonymous access to FTP; let's ignore that. We have login to a share on SMB called 'Anonymous' and from that we can retrieve a file called *backup.zip*. This contains a wordpress installation and a set of creds in a note.

I got the SMB listing with *SMBClient*:

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/kbvuln# smbclient -L //192.168.1.90
``

and then I retrieved the files with *smbclient.py*:

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/kbvuln# smbclient.py  
``
>Impacket v0.9.21 - Copyright 2020 SecureAuth Corporation

As it turns out, the note file containing the credentials is also on the webserver.

## Wordpress
So once we've got our credentials we can find the directory we want at http://kb.vuln/wordpress/wp-admin and from there we can do something to gain RCE; I uploaded a new plugin as a ZIP file, and I'm on the box. 

## Privesc
Reading /etc/passwd we have one obvious candidate for our user; its *kbadmin*. We can **su** to *kbadmin* using the same password we found earlier, and *kbadmin* is in the sudo group so then we can just **sudo su** and we are root. Or groot. Or something. Anyway, we're done.

## EasyEnum
*Boot2root in 6 steps for script-kiddies.  
Timeframe to root this box: 20 mins to never ever.   
It's on you.*

Script-kiddies? Aww, you'll hurt my feelings. Anyway, there are hints:

*Use "Daisys best friend" for information gathering.  
Visit "Karla at home".  
John and Hydra loves only rockyou.txt  
Enum/reduce the users to brute force with or brute force the rest of your life.*

## nmap
SSH and port 80 HTTP only.

## Webserver
Running some gobuster we find a page called *mini.php* which allows for upload of arbitrary files (including PHP reverse shells) and chmodding of them. I upload a shell, get confused by the *chmod* syntax (333 works for some reason), and then find the file to get a connection as www-data.

## Users
We've got a few users: *harry, sally, karla, goat, oracle*. Running *linpeas* gives us a hash for the *oracle* user but not much else. We do find a note saying that karla isn't really part of this challenge - presumably that's our 'Karla at home' hint. I have no idea who Daisy's best friend is.

John handles our hash easily but it doesn't get us any further, and given our hints maybe we need to bruteforce SSH. But which user should we try - we've still got *harry, sally* and *goat*. Harry and Sally don't seem to have anything interesting in their home directories, but Goat does - let's go there.

## Hydra
{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/easyenum# hydra -l goat -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 192.168.1.89 ssh
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2020-09-25 11:49:04
[WARNING] Many SSH configurations limit the number of parallel tasks, it is recommended to reduce the tasks: use -t 4
[DATA] max 16 tasks per 1 server, overall 16 tasks, 14344400 login tries (l:1/p:14344400), ~896525 tries per task
[DATA] attacking ssh://192.168.1.89:22/
[STATUS] 176.00 tries/min, 176 tries in 00:01h, 14344224 to do in 1358:22h, 16 active
[STATUS] 121.67 tries/min, 365 tries in 00:03h, 14344035 to do in 1964:57h, 16 active
[STATUS] 116.57 tries/min, 816 tries in 00:07h, 14343584 to do in 2050:46h, 16 active
[22][ssh] host: 192.168.1.89   login: goat   password: thebest
{% endhighlight %}

So, that worked. Let's SSH in as goat and see what we can do.

## Privesc
{% highlight shell %}
goat@funbox7:~$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for goat on funbox7:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User goat may run the following commands on funbox7:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/mysql
goat@funbox7:~$ sudo -u root mysql -e '\! /bin/sh'
# whoami
root
{% endhighlight %}

I think this did take me longer than 20 minutes. Maybe 30. 
