---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - Y0USEF: 1"
date:   2020-12-14 22:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Get two flag  
Difficulty : easy*

This is [Y0USEF: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/y0usef-1,624/) from Vulnhub. I've been so fricking busy lately.

## Ports
SSH and HTTP only.

## HTTP
The front page just says it's under construction so it's off fuzzing we must go. The directory we want is mis-spelled - I assume deliberately - but the mis-spelling does appear in one of our wordlists:

``
ffuf -u http://192.168.1.163/FUZZ -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/raft-large-words-lowercase.txt
``

So yes we want:

>http://y0usef/adminstration

Once we get there, we find a few subdirectories but nothing useful. The main directory greets us with:

>Forbidden  
You don't have permission to access on this folder

Maybe I'm dumb but it feels like it took me a long time to figure this out. In order to defeat this 403 forbidden, we need an extra header:

>X-Forwarded-For: 127.0.0.1

With this, we get access to a login panel.

## Login
User creds of *admin:admin* anyone? Sure, why not. We need to upload a reverse shell but PHP files are rejected. Double extensions and null bytes don't work; with reference to [this](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/file-upload) I just ended up using Burp Suite Repeater and setting:

>Content-Type: image/png

This was enough to get the shell up, and then I could catch my listener and I was away.

## Privesc
After the initial hurdles this was a cakewalk. I found a *user.txt* in */home/yousef* that looked a bit suspicious:

>c3NoIDogCnVzZXIgOiB5b3VzZWYgCnBhc3MgOiB5b3VzZWYxMjM=

This decodes to:

>ssh :  
user : yousef  
pass : yousef123 

We can SSH in and it turns out *yousef* is a sudoer, so it's just *sudo su*. 

{% highlight shell %}
yousef@yousef-VirtualBox:~$ sudo -l
[sudo] password for yousef: 
Matching Defaults entries for yousef on yousef-VirtualBox:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User yousef may run the following commands on yousef-VirtualBox:
    (ALL : ALL) ALL
yousef@yousef-VirtualBox:~$ sudo su
root@yousef-VirtualBox:/home/yousef# cd /root
root@yousef-VirtualBox:~# ls -lash
total 24K
4.0K drwx------  2 root root 4.0K Dec  8 01:22 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 22 root root 4.0K Nov 25 16:41 ..
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root  235 Dec  8 01:57 .bash_history
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root 3.1K Feb 20  2014 .bashrc
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  140 Feb 20  2014 .profile
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  105 Dec  8 01:32 root.txt
root@yousef-VirtualBox:~# cat root.txt
WW91J3ZlIGdvdCB0aGUgcm9vdCBDb25ncmF0dWxhdGlvbnMgYW55IGZlZWRiYWNrIGNvbnRlbnQgbWUgdHdpdHRlciBAeTB1c2VmXzEx
root@yousef-VirtualBox:~# echo 'WW91J3ZlIGdvdCB0aGUgcm9vdCBDb25ncmF0dWxhdGlvbnMgYW55IGZlZWRiYWNrIGNvbnRlbnQgbWUgdHdpdHRlciBAeTB1c2VmXzEx' | base64 -d
You've got the root Congratulations any feedback content me twitter @y0usef_11
{% endhighlight %}

And now it's bedtime.
