---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: ALFA: 1"
date:   2021-05-11 20:00:00 +1000
category: hacking
---

## ALFA: 1
This is [ALFA: 1](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/alfa-1,655/) from Vulnhub. It's rated as Medium, and appears on the [NetSecFocus](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) Trophy Room list. 

I had been doing the DriftingBlues series; I'd done 7 and 6 then the privesc on 5 was like super CTF-ish and I was like meh and then I started 4 and it was multiple base64 encoded strings and some nonsense I was like nah I'm done with this son. Anyway, Alfa.

## Ports
This box has FTP, HTTP, SMB and SSH on a non-standard port. 

## FTP
We've got anonymous access and find a username; thomas. We get a picture of a dog, and we can't *put* anything. Moving on.

## Dog picture
I try exiftool and stegseek; nothing. The filename is *milo.jpg*. 

## HTTP
In robots.txt we have this:

>/home  
/admin  
/login  
/images  
/cgi-bin  
/intranet  
/wp-admin  
/wp-login  

And most of these things don't exist. At the very bottom, we have this:

>++++++++++[>+>+++>+++++++>++++++++++<<<<-]>>+++++++++++++++++.>>---.+++++++++++.------.-----.<<--.>>++++++++++++++++++.++.-----..-.+++.++.

And if you go [here](https://copy.sh/brainfuck/) you can find out that points to **/alfa-support**.

If we go there, we get this:

>◈Thomas:➤Hi! I am Thomas Miller, employee number 300197 ✔✔  
◈Alfa IT Support:➤Good morning! nice to greet you Thomas, ¿How can help you? ✔✔  
◈Thomas:➤I have a problem with my password, I partially forgot it, I only remember that it is the name of my pet followed by 3 numerical digits. Could you reset my password? ✔✔  
◈Alfa IT Support:➤With pleasure Thomas, in a maximum of 24-48 hours you will receive an SMS on your corporate phone with your new temporary password, which you will have to change later. regards. ✔✔  

Righto. So the name of the pet is *milo* (we assume) and the numbers are presumably between 100 and 999. I generate a wordlist with python and feed it to Hydra:

``
hydra -l thomas -P ./passwords ssh://192.168.1.65:65111
``

And we get a hit: 

>thomas:milo666

## Privesc
We can SSH in as *thomas*; now what? Linpeas shows:

>root       486  0.0  3.2 128952 47808 ?        S    11:31   0:00 /usr/bin/Xtigervnc :1 -desktop Alfa:1 (root) -auth /root/.Xauthority -geometry 1900x1200 -depth 24 -rfbwait 30000 -rfbauth /root/.vnc/passwd -rfbport 5901 -pn -localhost -SecurityTypes VncAuth

That's Xtigervnc running as root. It's on port 5901:

>tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:5901          0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      -

In our home directory, we have:

``
4,0K -rwxrwxrwx 1 root   root     16 dic 17 23:35 .remote_secret
``

Now I wasn't familiar with any of this before, so this was a nice learning experience. I installed *tigervnc-viewer* on my Kali:

``
apt-cache search vncviewer
``

>tigervnc-viewer - Virtual network computing client for X

``
apt install tigervnc-viewer
``

And set up an SSH port forward:

``
ssh -p 65111 -L 5901:localhost:5901 thomas@192.168.1.65
``

Now; I was guessing the **.remote_secret** file (owned by root) was some sort of credentials, so I copied it over to my machine. I also ran **vncpasswd** on the server and checked that the created file (/home/thomas/.vnc/passwd) looked similar to the .remote_secret file; it did.

To start tigervnc-viewer from the command line with a specified password file we use this syntax:

{% highlight shell %}
┌──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/alfa]
└─# vncviewer -passwd .remote_secret 

TigerVNC Viewer 64-bit v1.11.0
Built on: 2021-03-22 21:21
Copyright (C) 1999-2020 TigerVNC Team and many others (see README.rst)
See https://www.tigervnc.org for information on TigerVNC.

Tue May 11 06:00:50 2021
 DecodeManager: Detected 2 CPU core(s)
 DecodeManager: Creating 2 decoder thread(s)
 CConn:       Connected to host 127.0.0.1 port 5901
 CConnection: Server supports RFB protocol version 3.8
 CConnection: Using RFB protocol version 3.8
 CConnection: Choosing security type VncAuth(2)
 CConn:       Using pixel format depth 24 (32bpp) little-endian rgb888
 CConnection: Enabling continuous updates
{% endhighlight %}

And separately, we get root in a TigerVNC session. Apparently I can't copy and paste from there (grrr) so I'll send myself a shell just to prove it really happened:

{% highlight shell %}
──(root💀kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/alfa]
└─# nc -nvlp 1234 
listening on [any] 1234 ...
connect to [192.168.1.210] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.1.65] 34774
root@Alfa:~# id;hostname;date
id;hostname;date
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) grupos=0(root)
Alfa
mar may 11 12:44:33 CEST 2021
root@Alfa:~# cat /root/root.txt
cat /root/root.txt

root_flag==>> QFqy4EUHwtu9rrrVe2T27we5W
# etc
{% endhighlight %}

Yeah you can probably copy and paste from there if you can be bothered to figure out how; I can't. Anyway this was pretty good and I learned some stuff so yay!
