---
layout: post
title:  "2020"
date:   2020-12-28 14:00:00 +1100
category: strays
---

## 2020, amirite?
So much has happened this year that it's hard to know where to begin. People will remember 2020 for plenty of bad reasons for a long, long time. This isn't a recap article; there are plenty of those already (and thousands more yet to be written).

You know what? It doesn't matter. 

I don't have a time machine, and neither do you. Today is the 28th of December 2020. I can no more grasp yesterday than I can *any other date in history that preceeded it*. 

So yes, in many ways 2020 was a difficult, challenging year. 2021 may be better, or it may not be. It's not here yet, so it doesn't matter.  

<br>
<hr>
<br>

*"Two elements must therefore be rooted out once for all, – the fear of future suffering, and the recollection of past suffering; since the latter no longer concerns me, and the former concerns me not yet."* – Seneca  

<br>
<hr>
<br>

Did you achieve what you planned to this year? Did you reach your goals? Did you at least *try* to reach them?

In many ways it doesn't matter if the answer is yes, no or maybe. The time passed anyway; you don't get it back. Have you achieved *everything* you want in life? I surely have not; I probably never will.  

<br>
<hr>
<br>

Will you try tomorrow? Tomorrow isn't here, and when it comes there will be a new tomorrow to defer to. 

The only moment you have is *right now*. This is the only moment you will **ever** have. Use it wisely.
